Is おにょみ a valid spelling/pronunciation of 音読み?
What does “ni sou” mean in ごく自然にそうなる
How do i say that i speak a little Japanese [closed]
The difference between お金 and 金
Can 中村 mean “villager” (person)?
meaning of だというに
そんな飲み方をしてしまいたくなるのが interpreting してしまいたくなる
Meaning of -てる in 付けてる
3 Questions from a Shin Kanzen Master N1 Passage
What is the reason for the odd vowel values of Japanese ココア?
noun が、noun が、verb (multiple が in a sentence)
Which to focus on the most while studying: Kanji, Vocabulary, or Grammar? [closed]
What is the meaning of 自分 in this sentence? Does it indicate suicide?
立派 (rippa) 素敵 (suteki) difference
Japanese Interjections (Danseigo-Joseigo)
what is the name of the abbreviated writing style used in newspapers?
Why is [欲しい]{ほしい} used here to ask about someone's desire?
む verbs and corresponding ましい adjectives
When can you use (masu stem) + (another verb)
How can （の）目指すは be grammatical?
Best Bible translation for my Japanese grandmother? [closed]
Help understanding some corrections on my sentences made using あげる、くれる, もらう
Can に have the same function as として?
Difference between そうになっていた and そうになった?
How do you join たる-adjectives?
I have a question. Why is the particle に instead of は for this sentence? Isnt the one doing supposed to be は not に? Thank you [duplicate]
Dropping だ in sentences
How does という work in the following sentence?
“Hesitate between A and B”
Translating でも in this context
Can somebody convert my Chinese name into Japanese? [closed]
How to politely ask if a specific person (by name) is available in a professional setting/store
The grammar behind “ていて+Adj” pattern
What does this shirt say? [closed]
Difference (if there is any) between 知るか and 知ったことか
How acceptable are ですのに/ますのに?
list of all words? [closed]
一日二日 pronunciation
I'd like to know the difference between various ways of saying 'Capacity' and 'Implement' in Japanese
急いでるから isoiderukara - what's going on here?
Are there other compounds with 分 where it is read as いた as in 大分県?
What's the difference between V-るうちに and V-ているうちに?
State of being vs forms of desu [duplicate]
Meaning of た form + なら
How to list numbers of things
How to say “garlic”, “garlic clove” and “garlic bulb” in Japanese?
“よねんせい” vs “よんねんせい” for “fourth-year student” in Genki 1
現金 and 金 what are the similarity and difference in usage?
Japanese counters
Is oniichan also used to refer to a big sister?
龍 安 寺　蹲 踞　『吾唯足知』 [closed]
Is するということであります speaking in the past, or present?
Do any of these names/kanji have any negative connotations?
Who is this person speaking for?
When not to use です [duplicate]
The meaning of という here? [duplicate]
What do you say when you feel bad for someone? Like “Poor Alice.”
What is the meaning of 肩にこてん in “ 俺の肩にこてんと頭を預けて”
Translating a sentence with までだ
Potential form and ～限り
Trying to translate an SFX but the characters look confusing
To what extent is 御目出度う御座います used? Is it considered bad form?
Is 「出ちゃいけません」 short for 「出ちゃってはいけません」?
ココロが上手くできていると思った - meaning
Even as in “is there even”
What's the difference between である and の in this sentence?
what does 'が入らず' mean?
What does kimashita means in 寒くなってきました
What does それ自体がジョーク mean?
Does ~のは…ためです make sense?
How to say 'ASMR' in Japanese?
What nuances do ~というところにあります and ~のであって add?
静かにさせてくれ to mean something like “let me have peace”
Parsing a sentence with two な-adjectives in quick succession
How to say 'to add'
Is there a Japanese equivalent for “just” in this context?
Why is 測 written in hiragana sometimes?
Can someone help explain this meaning of this Japanese sentence in English
Why can't you say " 私は学生をしています?
What is the best interpretation of “釣込” (“tsurikomi”)?
Question regarding 上がったり
Difference between 楽しくやってます and 楽しくやれてます
Spoken Japanese, words ending with わ used as the topic
What does 拭いて も みて も 落ちね mean?
What is the meaning of ようじゃね?
Can verbs/i-adjectives be indefinitely conjugated, or is there a limit?
平日 - What's the difference between the two readings へいじつ and ひらび?
Time and duration problem from “Nihongo So-Matome N3 - Listening”
Syntax of 住み心地のいい小さな家
Masu stem to connect sentences
Is そんなに short for そのように？
なんていいから and にしちゃい ？
What is small kanji part that is usually placed on the left of a japanese calligraphy (shodō) work?
Strange usage of を-Particle inside a 俳句 (haiku)
Can the passive agent be gapped?
Meaning of それだけだと言い切っても構わない
Stroke order of 繡
Is this furigana a typo?
Trouble with the compossed verbs
Difference between 光景, 風景, 景色, 情景, 景観, 眺め, 見晴らし and 場面
Why can't により be used with “concrete, tangible objects”?
「来米する」exact meaning and use in conversation?
“wa” vs. “ga” in the question “do you have…?” (child speak!)
届けるなってな meaning
Difference between まで and に when using a Number counter
Why are 近く and 多く nouns?
I need help translating a signed photo book [closed]
Trouble understanding small bits of poetry in a japanese novel
Nuance when the subject is moved to the end of the phrase
explanation of 状況が摑めず固まったままの俺
Why になって and not just use an adverb?
Unknown contractions and grammar in harsh language using 置いてくもん
How is 相手 working here?
Unknown string of kana “-始めようとしていたなかで-”?
Is the use of "だって” regional or is it used everywhere?
What is the difference between ばかり and だけ
Meaning of 賃料相当額
Meaning and translation of 総会屋
Pentel Fude brush pen with extra fine tip
類型化しておいて. Should we translate this as “categorize” or “classify”?
grammar question: ka? or ga? And what is the grammar? [duplicate]
僕が強くならなきゃ　from 月の大きさ　song [duplicate]
How to say “All [sth.] says is …”
What is the meaning of 「真{ま｝っ無｛む｝」 in the sentence 「真っ無だったかな。」? [closed]
What does 「とある」 mean in these sentences?
Usage of まで in this Verb (Plain) + まで form+ Verb (Present/Future or Past)
Clarifying the purpose of から at the end of that sentence
What's the meaning of “住まい” in “住まいが一番大変” sentence?
Volitional verb (意志動詞) and non-volitional verbs (無意志動詞)
How can one read 引括めて云えば、in クリスマス・カロル
空睨んでも - how can I tell when sora is being used for something other than the sky
Is “悪くならない” an okay replacement for ”日持ち”?
Question about these sentences with 稼｛かせ｝げる
How to read this text without any particles?
What does “焼き” (sorry if i spelled it wrong) mean? [closed]
Oneself words difference : 自分, 自身, 自ら, 自分自身, 己, 自己, 自力
Correct word/kanji for Precision
Double negation sentence in manga
「させていただく」or「させてくださる」
Question about some grammar structures in the sentence
What does “stem” mean in “Adj (na) stem”
Referring to groups of people
How to write 'must do… then…'
Would this be the correct term for half human/half spider?
Passive voice and complex or connecting sentence
Usage of で after embedded question
“となっております” - “It is our rule that” - Honorific Speech?
meaning and function of だの
What does とは mean in this sentence? [duplicate]
meaning of ことを言う
meaning of つい先ほど
は versus が in this sentence
Is this a good response to an email for interview request? [closed]
Usage of “suki” (na-adj)
ki wo tsukete kudasai / karada ni ki wo tsukete kudasai
のだとしても vs としても What’s the difference?
Conveying 'as ~ as I would have liked'
Meaning of ～ことは～ようか
What does the こと mean in this sentence? [closed]
Specific question about the use of “sugiru”
How to differentiate between the meanings of けり?
I'd like to understand the pattern “verb+nai+to(+ne)”
Expressing desire with a な-adj
When would you use 30分 versus 半 for telling time?
For adjectives which one applies? ように or ような
is Hizashi a noun or a proper name?
What is the difference between しない and じゃない?
is there any difference between あら and まあ?
What's the meaning of 〜までに here? [duplicate]
How does this verb interaction work?
ご存じ how to use properly and why
Meaning of “見るとこは見てくれてる”
Looking for help sorting out how some verbs work and hopefully a good resource for sorting such things out
Meaning of 求められる様にキス
思います grammar including て-Form
which meaning does ものだ have here?
の ⋆ こと ⋆ というの ⋆ ということ Used as Complementizers
When to give ている a Continuous reading and when to give it a Perfect Reading
Different ways of enumeration
Resource for looking up particles for verbs,
How does one learn the pronunciation of Japanese characters without romaji? [closed]
Meaning of いるとin 弥生時代にはいると…
Difference between 取り除く and 除く
How to read Japanese school grades?
Where's the “intent” shown in this sentence
「どちらにしても」の意味は何ですか
Sentence ending in 娘
Who performs the action 「ホームルームを終わらせて」
Why is 噌 a Jinmeiyō kanji despite being used in 味噌?
meaning of the expression 順調に回る
Can が be replaced by something else in this structure?
かわりもしますよ what is the meaning of this も?
Were there any specifics rules that were used to convert Chinese vocabulary into Japanese? Are they still perceptible in Modern Chinese?
What does 決まってんだろう imply?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
Purpose and meaning of やること in correction
How does 参｛まい｝る relate to love?
What is the difference between 当 and この?
function of に in 学業にスポーツ [duplicate]
What does it mean グレード・オプション?
What's the etymology of 「うつむく・俯く」?
Is there a rule to writing verbs in hiragana or kanji when used as a suffix? [duplicate]
What's this strange use of non-past 〜た in a question?
What does わ in this sentence meant?
Difference between るところだった　and たところだった
What is the subject of this sentence? It is omitted
Verb nominalization with plain form vs の
Why does “fu” changes to “pu” while it's not started with “h”?
Could you help me understand this sentence?
Meaning of 冷やかし上等
Help with this conditional
What's the nuance between these two example sentrences from Genki I? [duplicate]
Confusion on the pedagogy of adjective conjugation and interpretation of helper verbs and adjectives
Can the phrase にまた_が戻ってくるんだ have multiple meanings?
why つぎの じゅぎょう is correct?when おもしろい じゅぎょう is without の?
Meaning of 懐に入れた人間
How do you say as you can see?
What mean たまらない in this sentence
Interchangeability of も and と to emphasize size
how do we translate 外資を含む in this sentence?
Meaning of “らめえ”
What does the phrase 「こうしちゃおれんな」mean?
Seeking a japanese native sounding name from chinese name 陳翔榮(陈翔荣）(Chén Xíangróng)
What is 次第 doing in this sentence? [duplicate]
precision about the meaning of 筒抜け in the context
Trying to convey “Confection” or “Sweets” using Japaneese number wordplay
How do I convert my Chinese name into Japanese and furigana?
Subject + に + 形容詞/形容動詞
Grammar behind 言うには
Leaving away the 目 suffix for ordinal numbers
謙譲語：お「verb stem」する
「ぺったん」→「ぺったら」 – A conjugation of an onomatopoeic adverb?
Kara at the end of sentence
Te Okimasu and sentence ending with Kara
What does 普通に考えたら mean
Differentiate between usages of 全部: all or completely?
Japanese word meaning “clumsy”
In what cases do 平板 verbs change their pitch?
Confusion about the use of active and passive voice
What is the modern meaning of the word Ukiyo in Japan today? Is it still used to identify Red Districts or is it only “the floating world” now? [duplicate]
“とした” in context of adjective/object
Help identifying a low resolution kanji
What does さようなら (左様なら) have to do with “left”?
Who is the subject of the sentence?
How do you translate “A person who admits ignorance shows it once; the one who tries to hide it shows it often.” to Japanese?
Is there a rule or pattern to figure out whether を or に should be used with 我慢する?
Connotations of なら vs たら in conditional clauses
What does the き in わたしわすすけたぶりきのひと mean?
Why does 「借りる」 become 「借りします」 in the title 「彼女、お借りします」?
Translation of the word ごった煮
What translator is best for learning how to say a phrase or sentence in modern, conversational Japanese? [closed]
許してやる forgiveness?
Using honorifics when talking about others with friends (indirect speech)
Why are there separate passive versions of so many verbs? How do they differ in meaning from the regular passive conjugation?
The usage of 回転数 in a sentence
Confusing sentence translation
Particle に in this sentence [duplicate]
押しのけていく？How is the two verb connected together
What's the difference between 済ませる【すませる】 and 終える【おえる】?
how to know when to say “ha” or “wa” with は
かつおぶし but かつをぶし
て form can be used to indicate the past? [duplicate]
Meaning of 太ももを鍛えたなんたらいうシナリオ
What is the meaning of キロ四方?
What would be the function of the ときたものだ?
How would you translate this and what does 'には' mean here
Explanation for 変わった and 似た as adjectivals
How do you type Warsaw in Romaji?
I cannot translate this art [closed]
に+しよう and って欲しい in requesting [closed]
Why ドルフィン, ドルファン and ドルフォン?
Is there a some general rule when to write 物/もの in kanji or hiragana?
Need help parsing a sentence (てもいい or ても）
Usage of より in 今まででいちばん多かった前の年より１５人少なくなりましたが
娘、本を投げてパパに渡した事があって怒ったんです。 Can anyone explain what is going on in this sentence?
Meaning of 流石に甘いとか言うレベルじゃなかった
Meaning of どれも一枚のバインダーに収まるくらい
usage of ばかり in this sentence
Use of のどこが when asking about traits
question about meaning of と言われては in this tweet
When is 博士 (hakase) used as honorific?
What is the difference 「光景」「情景」and 「場面」？
What is the meaning of “できたれば”?
Can I write Japanese name “Midori” this way - 緑?
Confusion regarding the usage of 〜たいものだ
「食べさせてもらおう」 - How precisely does this sentence break down?
Is there a difference between 「qrコード 作成」 and 「qrコード作成」? [closed]
How precisely is the へ particle to be understood in 「そこへ、…」 when it means “then”?
How do you correctly write a name in English and Japanese?
What would be the function of the というものだ in this context?
Trying to break down 2 sentences (Genki lesson 15 dialogue 1)
What does 集線 mean?
What does the の's mean in this sentence of A to B comparison
What does 対向拠点 mean?
Whats the difference between 「睡眠不足」and 「寝不足」?
What does 。。んだようなものだもんね mean in this sentence?
What is the difference between 「慎重 」「用心深さ」and 「用心」?
あのレストラン vs そのレストラン in this conversation
Kanji for „Pro“? [closed]
禁止を表す「じゃない」と「んじゃない」
Is ちの a verb stem in ツリ目がちの?
What does かぱんと mean in this sentence?
My Issue: 低額. Does it mean low-cost or small amount?
これしか食べない vs これ食べるしかない
Unknown verb form (typo?) in manga
ていく (auxiliary verb) - Clarification on nuance
Uses of その他/他に(も)/他(に)は
i wanted to name myself a Japanese name,(first-last) but i wanted to know if it was okay to do so
Why is わからない the wrong choice in this sentence
How to join a noun and a verb
や at the end of a sentence [duplicate]
What is correct answer to the question お国は?
What are some different uses of く?
Is there a difference between 「どこからか」 and 「どこかから」?
Grammar behind the flower name ワスレナグサ
How do you say something “works”?
Ne & yone purposes
Why is では used here? What does it do to the meaning of this sentence?
does maigo work as a name for a musical artist [closed]
how is に used in this sentence?
What's the difference between 「言う」「話す」「喋る」「語る」?
Difference between ないからこそ and もいないんだから in practice question
Can I use the word ちる when I want to say that ´the apples fell from the tree´?
いつか日本に行きます。/ 五日日本に行きます。
What are the katakana in the definition headers of jp-jp dictionaries?
My Issue: What is おいて in 安価なインターネットVPNにおいても遅延やゆらぎのない高品質かつリアルタイムな通信を実現し?
How to let a pen pal know it is ok to speak in English
What function would っての have in these contexts?
The usage of 「見違える」: positive or negative
Meaning of おじゃすみなさい vs おやすみなさい/おやすみ?
When did 「ヤッホー」 become a popular greeting?
What is meaning of “よ—ん”
What usage of とは is this?
Asking What's the logic?
Strange sentence construction: を今
Does this ように mean “as if” or “so that”. 恥ずかしさを誤魔化すように
Why is を used instead of が in the following sentence?
How to use そうに?
Can “ケンカになったのよ” be talking about a hypothetical?
So I'm trying to understand this paragraph of the 365 Nichi no Kamihikouki song text
Weird conjugation of become
please help me understand the meaning and structure of this sentence
Verbs joined with くて and modifying a noun
Why 無茶ぶりした and not 無茶ぶりされた
Possible meanings of 校 - exam?
Is っていうんですか／っていうんだ used for emphasis in the context?
The grammar of present progressive in imperative tense -ていろ
structure used in そんなもんだって
how does 頑張ってかないと work？
Function of なワケ of 一体何の用なワケ?
Function of だけ of だけまだ幸運だった?
Why can 〜ようと思う express someone else’s volition other than the first person?
What does the following mean?
何から何までちょっとはずれたヤツでして・・・
でねえ in anime - Negative Imperative?
How do I introduce something new and then describe it in the same sentence?
How would my Chinese name be translated into Japanese? [duplicate]
Because I cannot find the root verb in any dictionary, what does をしめて回った mean in this sentence?
What does といい mean?
How would I write my name in kanji? [closed]
Using に conjunctively to mean “In addition”
に followed by nouns, what is its usage?
Usage of と in the end of a sentence
Can に be translated to “be”?
difference between 道具 vs 工具
Power words: what are they, and what meanings do they have?
Why is 毎日 placed before 家 here?
あわれめ? (“Greetings”)?
What role do the Siddham characters have in Japanese?
How is ちん working in 知らんちん
I have a question about japanese literature
What does the word「なさんな」mean?
How should I understand the ありそうなものだったが?
Mixing formal and informal language?
Interrogative/Counters with か、も、でも, but also with particles
Meaning of そう in そう、とんでもないことをさらっと言ってのけた
difference between 死, 死ぬ, & 死去?
Is there really a difference between 色素 and 色
What does the word 小吉 mean in this context? [closed]
Non-universal counters and reading 7 and 9
Is there anything wrong with the sentence “今午前七時間です”?
Is Ippu a Japanese word or cultural reference?
What does 「で」mean in 「試合で 失敗しました」? Why not use 「に」?
Can't understand why this sentence is written this way
Pronunciation of /g/ [duplicate]
Meaning of 当然のように
Does “Tekken” sound like “iron sword” to someone unfamiliar with the franchise?
が Particle (Neutral-Descriptive) with Non-living things
Meaning difference between 夜は明ける and 夜が明ける?
Meaning of 気持ちを通わせていった
Grammar and verb use in a sentence
Interpreting “顔を曇らせ” in a song lyric [duplicate]
Literal meaning and parsing of 軽音部とかけて双六と解く
Cases where として and にとって are overused/ cannot be used
Does the order matter when applying multiple modifiers to one noun with the の particle?
What's the meaning of みつる
About the usage of 借りる
っては replaced with っちゃ？
Evolution of が (ga) particle: How did use as conjunctive arise from use as a subject marker
Appropriate typography for listing numbers in Japanese
Why not te form in 見にくる
I want a tattoo meaning Fate/Destiny please help me out
I don't know understand what the 9つも is doing grammatically in this song title: 「９つも離れた君との恋」
When to use -ni ikimasuka or -masuka
Exclusive or, does it exist in Japanese?
What is the difference of 間 (かん) in 一時間 and 一分間?
Japanese complete answer
What does this symbol “I” mean in a manga? What is its usage?
How to know the meaning/usage of 一
Meaning of 滅多な事では + Vしない?
How is this pronounced? 使い途
Can おいてない act as a contraction of おいてほかにない
How is arrowhead said?
Aren't there two ways of putting a sentence with an i-adjective into past tense? かった and でした?
Why usage of た and not ている in the following usage
Are there placeholders in spoken Japanese?
na-adjective + noun: can I negate na-adjective in this case?
Does particle も eat particle の?
Transitive, Intransitive and Potential Verbs
How to say: Mary thinks that Robert likes Tom
Book error: パパは銀行に出かけていていないよ
What exactly are ア行-category verbs?
Why are there so many カ行、サ行、ラ行五段活用 verbs?
Translation of the kagura song
Adverbs - the difference between 恐らくand 多分
What's the precise meaning and usage of the っこ construction?
「している」と「し続ける」の違い
Can you add a “cause” to an intransitive verb with に
Function of で in this sentence: 「入れ違いで亜美さんが出て行ったところです」 [duplicate]
why did they use なく instead of ない
てほしくば - “If I want you” to or “If you want me to”?
Grammar of て + (い)ましょう
How to parse this sentence ending in は
i-adjective + noun: is there a difference which part negate?
How was まで used in this sentence: やる気がない者に構ってやるのは義務教育まで
窶 use in compound words
Japanese equivalent to nonliteral “sounds like”
“sang differently” in Japanese
て form at end of phrase but not being used for requests
Verb する in this sentence
Meaning of “であること” in “親子であることのむずかしさについて (…)”
How do I romanize “ように” and “二度と”?
Grammar of Negative Verb + 限り
What is the first Kanji in this image?
What does と mean when it is at the beginning of a sentence？
Kanji or hiragana? 駄目です vs だめです [duplicate]
Is it redundant to have わかるようになる and つもり in the same sentence?
Why do the readings change?
How to understand 喜びようったら大変なもの
What does 見とく mean here? [duplicate]
How do you say when you learned from something?
重要ないくつか what is this word ending?
What does ってのか mean in this sentence?
Which verb does 下すった come from?
How do you say you want to share something with someone?
Sounds of 大体 (Approximately)　vs 代替 (Alternative)
Meaning of 白分 in Whatsapp [closed]
世の中は三日見ぬ間の桜かな - How to interpret the かな in this proverb? How to interpret this proverb?
Are there kanijis in もういちどあねがいします
How do you read the double 々々 and what does this symbol ／＼ mean in the book?
のように vs と同様 to show similarity
Kuromoji tokens [closed]
Can I use my Chinese name as my Japanese name?
What exactly does the song title 「恋するカレン」 mean?
Differences between 返る and 帰る
Meaning of 引きよせられるように
How to say 'also', but in different contexts? [duplicate]
What is the たて in 取れる+たて?
Logic behind 「わかってくれ」
までは vs まで difference
What does いくら mean with 時間がない?
Is というのだ similar to “in addition”? Or it is “they said”?
What does 出す mean in this sentence?
Help understanding this sentence/joke
允可ス on Aikido Certificate - Meaning and Katakana Usage
んです - んだ - Struggling with the practical use / difference with masu form
when is ん pronounced as “m”?
How to appropriately pair tenses in subordinate and main clauses?
Transitivity of the verb 逃げる and 逃れる
Predicates that are a static, stable state
Contextual uses of あまり ~ない？
Why do people say “食べる” instead of “食べましょう” or “食べよう”
Is there a difference between 絶える & 死に絶える
Function of で in these lyrics
~ていられる - present progressive and potential?
Word Order で And に before topic
けど and でも differences
Te form and ru form of verbs when used with potential form
The correct usage of ～と決める, ～に決める, and ～を決める
ひとつ (give something a try)
Is the sentence '意思にしか動くな' a correct sentence?
は vs が in neutral sentences
Verb stem plus や meaning
Difference between して and させて
Omitting と when listing things
What does 「生き残る目」 mean in this sentence?
How is おあがん working in this sentence
Japanese word using で” in this sentence [duplicate]
What type of と is in this sentence?
what is the use of 下 in this sentence
となる with a sense of composition
Interpreting な in 年賀状に使えるな
What's the difference between 学部 and 学科?
What's the difference between 親睦会 and 懇親会?
Why 燃ゆる in a modern slogan?
Can someone explain かんーわええのぅ
What does the phrase 時とタイミング mean?
How can I understand というくらい / ってくらい
double past correct?
How to translate this 点だった知識が線につながることを経験していただけたら幸いです
I have a particle curiosity
I need help with the translations of the word Seido 精度
Looking for the History of the Kanji 湯
Is とどまることを知らなかった a misuse of とどまるところを知らなかった?
When would you use the volitional form with なんて?
Answering よくえいがをみますか。(Genki I Workbook)
Who does ヤツ in this context refer to?
こんな ことしたら心動くんだ. Is this sentence correct?
と usage with いる and the っちゃう ending on a verb
自分自身らしくいてください (double checking the meaning)
Question about the usage of もの and こと in Shinkanzen Master N2 Grammar
Do I understand たり here correctly?
Meaning for 三日後に　本気出せ
How to use いざ…や and what it exactly means
Minna no nihongo wago counting
Help with the breakdown of this sentence?
Is “verb+か… verb+かしている” a fixed pattern?
Confusion about まっとうに, 青春をする and the subject and object of this sentence
Is '愛したら解放させ' a correct phrase? Is it's meaning clear?
は and を with Passive verb
Differences between 答え and 受け答え
how to know the usage of として
Grammar confusion with use of 頼みてえ [duplicate]
Orthography at the turn of the previous century
Can someone help me translate “she's my person”?
痛くなったり grammar?
What is the difference between the conditionals なら & ば?
How does the なら particle work in the sentence [地獄なら知っている]?
Is there a particle dropped in the sentence お届け物いたします?
What does “一連覇中” mean?
is Vてはじめて it's own grammar construction or simply something made up to help Japanese learners?
I don't get what ''元気よくとはいかない'' means
What is the use of イ. in this document?
Why is に used with causativeて+もらう but not causativeて +くれる?
Using progressive when connecting verbs
先生 character etymology
What is the function of ものな in this sentence?
には agent or object of the potential form?
What is the difference between using てしまう, 切る, and 上げる to say to finish doing?
Nuance between いか and イカ? [duplicate]
I don't understand the meaning of たまに
Slang meaning of ダルい
What is the purpose of のある in 人気のある?
Can 悪魔 mean something else other than devilish / demonic?
Meaning and origin of もありか?
How do I understand this sentence which ends in an adverb
Nuance of ざんす / ざんしょ as a sentence ender
何も followed by a noun
What is the difference in nuance by using から and between に with the passive verb?
Could you please help me break this sentence down?
Meaning of ''とね''
Understanding questions with ommited words
身近に親しい異性がいたらよかったのにね - Particle に
Can you use the し particle without dictionary forms? [duplicate]
感じ and 風 to talk about how to do something
Turning い-Adjectives into Adverbs
ちりと化すぞ - What is the function of particle と?
meaning of “~たらことだ”
Usage of か after verbs
Did the られる potential form come from 得る?
I need help with parsing out this one, really long sentence from a book
Grammar difficulties in sentence with adjective + さんには
What does '練習しなければ' mean on its own?
Difference between しゃべんだったら and しゃべったら？
「弱者」vs「若者」Any rules to use On-reading or Kun-reading
Does this mean “thank you”?
Confusing interchangeability of 汝 and 己
Contribution of 気 to the meaning, for example, 勇気 and 勇
Normal is the most difficult" — origin in Japanese?
What does 'te- mitai na' mean at the end of a sentence?
Relation between ～てまでも and ～ないまでも
Another use of particle “wo”?
金曜日の予習に第4章を読んでおくこと, The function of こと [duplicate]
そういう全てを含めて包み込む度量
ワクワクする vs ワクワクしている
What is the grammar for saying things like “Step A”, “our friend Nozomi”, or “the snowiest city in the world, Aomori”?
Would using “たら” make sense in this type of sentence?
Meaning of the ~く adverb in this sentence and the validity of interpreting it as ~くて
How should I understand 何回目か in this sentence?
Meaning of 無理に聞いても 言わせてもね
Potential form of 言う - 言える - an ichidan verb?
Meaning of 奴のが?
What is the difference between ないんですか and んじゃないですか?
Meaning of 怒りの気
The difference between の中で vs の中から
meaning of 浮かべる in this context
Meaning of ゲロった in ぼっちルーチンをゲロっただけでした
How would say something like “I hate to break it to you, but…” in Japanese?
How many true verbs and i-adjectives are there in Japanese?
Difference between Nになります and Nになりました
What does 「Nounを笑え」 phrase mean in this sentence?
Hi everyone, I was wondering how you say by____ in Japanese?
How do you say this? (Warning NSFW)
How do you say: “People like you are ____” in Japanese?
What does で means in this sentence? [duplicate]
Meaning and use of とっさに
Circle inside a circle character. What is it?
What's the function of て and の in this sentence “ これって英語でなんて言うの”
Break down … にはならない
What's the function of に here in this sentence with a passive verb?
かも。 か。。。も？　n5 lvl learner
What does 「耳元を過ぎる」 mean?
Meaning of 目当てなくせに
Double checking my understanding of のことで
What's the difference between 必要ですand 必要があります? [duplicate]
japanese adjectives [duplicate]
What's the significance of this female character's use of おまえ?
Is こられた (from 来られた from 来られる) here working as a passive helping?
Meaning of ーたりしない
How would you interpret 迷 in this sentence?
What is the function of the に in 差別化に大変?
What is the meaning of よる in this sentence?
What semantic notions underlie 和 and Japan?
How is いただけ or いただけに working here? [duplicate]
What does the に do in 表情から察するに?
What is the function of やらで?
Units for stock indexes
というのか vs というのですか
～たところで - Even if …?
What does 形になります mean here?
Can not find this kanji online [closed]
How would a butler/servant refer to his princess?
Why is 色んな an adjectival and not an adjective?
Can もreplace へ?
Is どんなことでも失敗したら a whole clause or two separate clauses?
The function of the に in 俺たちに足りない部分を埋めて
Meaning of 切る in イシューを切る
Counters and their placements with nouns
Meaning of 「同性から見たって良い女だろ?」
What is the difference between 卓 and 台?
How are the working in these sentence these two: かも　and or か and も
How do you pronounce a ッ followed by a ー?
Meaning of が and おく in 言っておくが? [duplicate]
What is the role of から in this case?
Are there any differences between だんだんと and だんだん? [duplicate]
Sound change of verbs (違う → ちげー)
Is 「悪く言うと」 used in a positive sense here?
Why is 及び being used to mean “a.k.a.” in this sentence?
Is there a term for Chinese-derived “kunyomi”?
What is the meaning of キリ in this paragraph?
Difference between using Noun + Particle + の and Similar Construction
What's the difference between じゃあね and またね?
Meaning of かかした in this sentence さんざん無理な注文したうえに、恥までかかしたんだ
Apparent honorific use of 参る
Looking for help understanding a passage
Would a square logo/sign be read like a name seal or like a western sign, if the characters lined up?
Is there a kanji form of ああ?
Why are katakana preferred over hiragana or kanji sometimes?
What is the meaning of ながむれば?
Meaning of the pattern ～ては
I want to be able to speak more casual Japanese. I just wanted to know if it was possible to drop です out of a sentence. example: これは犬
Can I drop “to be/is” particles esp. in usernames?
Is there any linguistic value behind encircled katakana letters?
Unusual words in anime
Need help in understanding a censored word
Which translation is closer to the original Japanese?
Which of the following forms are allowed in relative clauses?
Positioning of Particle の in the Noun Phrase
Help translating この姿なら異国人も怪しまれない. Why も instead of でも?
what does 節目のご祈祷 mean [closed]
How is ふう working here
「~らしい」(conjecture/guess) vs「~そうだ」(conjecture/guess)
What does ''食べろっていう'' mean
Can the ~てくれてありがとう form be used to thank someone for more general actions?
What does 『好き』が強い感がある
What does 縦に半回転する mean
する　-verbs perception by native speakers
Whats the meaning of the structure てたって?
仕掛けてきてた in this context
Why does 鱧 not contain the 口 radical?
居る (いる) vs 居る (おる)
Function of が instead of な here
Grammar interpretation of 来た人をごはんにして食べるんだ
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
How can you interpret “できるもんなら作るよ ってのが”
関西弁 「～せんと」- More than just「～しないと」?
Fuction of 私に when someone else wants someone to do something
What does the 「おかけしやして」mean?
I don't understand what 果てた mean?
How is と working here?
Causative form to request others to do something
Meaning of 焦りが見えることを見透かしていた
Meaning of ずにはすまない
“歩くための靴” VS “履くための靴 ”
What is the meaning of らん in ゆくらん?
Meaning of うちの上 in phrase
して omitted in として?
What does いて do here?
Up until what age are you a 子供?
Meaning of もったいないお化けがでる
Which word for “sun” should I use?
~らしい(hearsay)　vs　~そうだ (hearsay)
Can someone help with this sentence? Or - how to decipher the structure in general
Choosing between が vs. は in sentence
What's the difference between OO人もいる vs OO人がいる?
The different words for clothes
Linguistic/syntactic analysis of のほうがよく聞く
What is そういうの referring to?
どれくらいかかる　ｖｓ　どれくらいかかりそう？
How many case marking particles are there?
What would be the difference between 〜ようというときに and 〜ようとしたときに?
Difficulty understanding ~とくん [duplicate]
聞く and the passive
The uses of verb + ん apart from simple negation
What is the function of the と in といきましょう
Am i translating this right?
Translation help - trouble finding out who does what
a question about お預かりいたします
Differences between とはいえ, にもかかわらず and ものの
Revisiting いいんじゃない
The difference between はじめに and はじめて and はじめは
using 未然形 and 已然形 with conditional ば
Who is the one choosing the weapons
Understanding のではない and のではないか in the passage
Past tense and ~と思う
How to interpret the volitional form of です
What does ことごとく mean?
Would one say “become one with shadow” this way, Hitotsu Ni Naru Kage (一つになる影)? [closed]
Vている vs. casual/casual past
difference between 介護士 and 看護師
Word meaning and grammar help
What are the correct symbols for kozumi?
Difficulty understanding ~ならざるもの
Is ぢゃ/ぢゅ/ぢょ used in modern kana usage?
When/How to use なので or ので after adverbs/adverbials?
Logical/Historical evolution of てしょうがない・てしかたがない・てならない to mean て堪らない
Why can't まちがいなく失敗 mean 'a zero-mistakes失敗'?
Meaning of こそすれ
What does こっちが mean? [duplicate]
Why is 寺 read differently in 長谷寺 and 平林寺?
please help me break down this confusing sentence involving the usage of は and の particle and also ことにする
栄光の Glorious as a username does it make sense? [closed]
Grammar help from light novel
Meaning of 言葉は殴り返せない
Is it accurate to think of the て-form as meaning “in the state/condition/form of”?
万端　ｖｓ　完了 in this context
Can places be used without に?
「に対し 」と「に対して」の違い？
What does 歯が欠ける mean?
Can 二度と～ない be taken literally?
Why are some terms for relative time irregular?
Is 笑 more like “LOL” or “haha”?
Are you supposed to not pronounce the “い” in います when reading out sentences or speaking?
How to say someone's (possessive) home in Japanese?
Help with the usage of に in a sentence
What does あえて mean?
What is the difference between XはYが and XにYがあります?
Why is past form だった used to describe a present scene?
Proverb? “When you have completed 95 percent of your journey, you are only halfway there.”
What is the form of that conjugation できなくなっています?
What does というところで mean in this context?
Usage of に or で in the following sentence
Fun with synonyms - “shine/sparkle/glitter/glimmer/glisten/gleam/twinkle/flash”
How do you say “You sound like a ___?”
How to get this form and how to translate it 思わざるを得なくなる
Synonyms of いかに
Number Suffixes in names? [duplicate]
Translation for book title “The Other Side”, differences between capitalization [closed]
What is difference between 熱を出す and 熱が出る
Confusion between 貸して vs. 借ります for Vて-form もらいます structure
What is the specific meaning of 時の函 in this song lyric?
How can these two verbs affect 未来 at the same time?
Understanding 「たった三十分のあいだに、高木の変わり様といったらなかった。」
Can と indicante the object or the topict too as well as the を and は particles do?
I need help to understand this sentence: おじいさんはないをやらせてもだめなんだもの
Negative and past forms of ようだ and らしい
Grammar Help in sentence
Why is アタマ written in katakana in the following passage?
Difference in words for saying “how + adjective”
Question about 際 usage in Shinkansen Master N2
Pronunciation of [d͡ʑ] vs [ʑ]
Word for the boundary between multiple kanji in one word?
Questions about the construction A が B(B is a noun)+のだ/のである?
Which character set are typically used to transliterate “roman abbreviations” in named entity?
pitch accent for suffixes
Example with 〜だけでなくて、〜も patern that I don't understand
What is the function of the に in 仕上げに?
on the meaning of と云ったなり
Role of と in a particular sentence 満たされないと泣いているのは [duplicate]
Use of と at end of a sentence
Leaving out endings to sentences
An inanimate object being the agent?
～のは～から。 sentence structure
Help with translation [closed]
infinitive verb form + よ
What does the text on this jacket say? [closed]
～に対して～ Usage for contrasting?
九百, くひゃく (arch) (derog) fool; idiot
How do you express something is for something
Re:Difference of ている (in Perfect Aspect) and た (Past), based upon Research Paper of Hokkaido University
question on ていく and てくる?
Is this usage of も and sentence correct?
How to interpret indirect passives?
Do [贈]{おく}り物 and プレゼント mean the same thing?
Function of the に (光に透けて)?
What does this line all mean? [closed]
double use of と as grammatical construct or choice of literary style?
Odd position of adjective
[subject][に instead of が] before transitive verb
How do I know when kana are included in the kanji or inflected?
どちら vs どちらの for “which”
襲名 - Successing to your own name?
Loanwords not being pronounced in a normal moraic rhythm?
Interaction between pitch accent and mi-prefixation
「力で」 and 「力をもって」
A reverse sentence structure?
How to translate FYI into Japanese
Is “verb+こと+数量” a fixed pattern?
idiom along the lines of “you get more relatives as you get famous”
サッと: Mix of ひらがな and カタカナ in the same word?
Passive voice with ている
How should I start learning Japanese as a total beginner and a native English speaker? [closed]
Double を of the form [noun] を [noun] を [verb-stem] つつ
とか and など in same sentence
What does ～ないことはない mean?
Using いらっしゃる vs いる when referring to 方
Form of address for a medical doctor in Edo and Sengoku eras
Sandals vs. geta
how do you use ごと
「の為の」 in certain contexts
お正月には「初詣」といって…grammar
不思議に思う meaning/grammar
How to guess an implied predicate?
How to use expression「私なんか」?
Can someone help me understand what the と particle is doing in this sentence?
Is the 出し in the following sentence a relative clause?
How would the meaning of this sentence change if ものだから becomes から (or ことから)
Does どうにも mean 'no matter how' with positive verb?
Can 秘める mean to have?
What is the exact translation of this sentence?
Pitch accent of 超自然的
Translating causative forms of 食べる (taberu)
“Te-form” versus “masu-stem + して” (消しているうちに versus 消ししているうちに)
In order to survive: 生きていくために or 生き残るために? what is the diffence?
What is the こと in sentences such as あなたのことが好きだ?
How can I combine time markers with different verb tenses?
Meaning of にあるとのことだった
What is the meaning of な＋ほう
How do you write cho, chu, che and cha in Japanese using hiragana? [duplicate]
Do loanwords have quasi-phonemic vowel reduction?
Ambiguity when describing with verbs, e.g. 酒を飲ませる人
Multiple subject?
Japanese symbol for “Japanese language”
Using a く form of an い adjective with a noun
Why is Ichi a common name for a blind person?
What conjugation does出す/出せる take in this expression;元気を出せよ。?
Using て form at the end of sentences
Does 鴉靉魅 work for the name Aimi?
Where do dictionaries imply the use of て as 'present perfect/past' and '…ing'?
what is the usage of the でーparticle in this sentence?
Does 青山 (aoyama) mean green or blue or black mountain?
Meaning of っていうことで
Is it right say 一人の人魚?
Is this 「より」used to make a comparison in this sentence
Difference between 面　and 表. Can they be used interchangeably Please explain with an example
What is the difference between 襲う、撃つ、and 襲撃?
つく meaning in キズがつきやすい?
When a verb in the present expresses the past, is it CORRECT to conjugate it to the past and still nothing changes?
Usage of ている in Punctual Verbs in Japanese and the Concept of Present Perfect in English
What nuance does も add instead of が? [duplicate]
newbie trying to understand どの and くらい in the phrase どのくらい
Particle「も」in the sentence 「夏休みももう終わりだ」。
Trying to make sense of a sentence in Akutagawa's “Hell Screen”
Problem with understanding the action of いる in 決まった場所にいる代わりに
When 一緒 means “the same”, is there a difference in usage between 一緒 and 同じ?
Meaning of 危ぶめる
Do わずかに and しか alter the negation of negative verb to make the meaning positive?+Cases when 行っていません expresses the past?
Meaning of 後に in 研究員たちが後に続くと、博士は笑みを浮かべた。
When and how to use “の” correctly?
Usage of している in cases of talking about experience
The meaning implied by ことになった in this sentence
The ''is it included in the kanji or not'' phenomenon?
そんな meaning “like that”
Use of「ことがわかる」in this sentence
refering someone as 君
The difference between ending a sentence with さ or ね
Using an asterisk to indicate a disclaimer
Does な have a purpose in あの人のことが嫌い**な**わけではないが、一緒にいるとちょっと疲れる。 or is it just a mistake?
How did 賃 get its 慣用音 reading?
Answering ___もいいですか with すみません, ___ ですから
Different ways of saying “good night” in Japanese [closed]
What is the meaning of 「オレより頭ひとつぶん低い…」？
Can (Aともかく,B.) be always understood as (Do do you know about A? B.)?
Does the も particle always act on the word just before it?
Which of the Japanese scripts should I learn first? [closed]
Parsing a sentence with の and に missing(?)
help with breaking down this sentence: 私が今まで見た中で最も面白いもの
What does 入れてください mean in 毎日、時間があろうとなかろうと、連絡だけは**入れてください**。?
What instances would you use someone's full name?
Identifying the correct reading for multiple Kanji
Why を and not に in 今日は先輩に2回**を**注意されました。?
word-by-word translation of こんな遅い時間に**来られても**困ります。
Does '頑張って' affect '仕事' using 'を' in 留学を決心した上は、**仕事を頑張って**留学の代金を貯金すべきだ。?
この町は、地下鉄が通った上に、**デパートもできて**、便利になった。looks awkward to me [duplicate]
Arimasu is used for things that aren't living. are there exceptions to this?
仕事をする上で大切なのは、周りと**の**コミュニケーションです。What's the function of の here? [duplicate]
What does じゃあーりませんか mean?
みんなの日本語って教科書**が**だれでも知っているね。it should be を not が right?
何より meaning in a sentence
what does 急ぐついでに mean?
そう with verbs in different forms as well as the differences with みたい
The grammar of ~たい と焦がれながら
なんてことない qualifying あたし?
How to say “with Person A and Person B”?
Translating without the use of pronouns
Why is タバコを買ったつもりで、お金を入れるわけだ translated to “Basically it's the money I planned on spending on cigarettes”?
'旅行に**行った**つもりでお金をためている。' why is 行 conjugated in the past rather than being 行く? [duplicate]
What conjugation of 送る is used in 返事をしたつもりだったが、送れていなかった
橘花: きっか or きつか? When つ in compound words turns into っ?
Why is it [名前を書いたつもりだったが、**書いていなかった**ようだ。] and not just 書かなかった? [duplicate]
I ask for an explanation about the なの in [祖母は耳が遠い、つまり、耳が少し不自由**なの**だ。] [duplicate]
Can ている be used for stating activities that are not being performed habitually
What is the point of using 謂わば in this sentence?
Do Japanese use 順番、順番！ as a command, like in the military?
Difficulty understanding the following sentence 穴？ 一体何を証拠に…
Pitch Accent Confusion
What does the work “Kitaku” mean?
Is 二人 a の-adjective in [今日のサイクリングレースでは、**二人**の選手が最後まで抜きつ抜かれつ一番争いをして いた。]?
What does the く in 無くしてく do?
おか means 'pile' in [来年も仕事があるとは限らないから、ちゃんと貯金しておかなければいけない。] right?
Why wasn't が used instead of には in [そんなこと、私にはとても出来ない。]?
Is the translation “Even if you fail, just continue to challenge yourself.” correct for 「たとえ失敗したとしても、またチャレンジすればいい。」?
Is the following と an example of 'with' or 'compared to'?
What is the meaning of 映ってない?
The meaning of “がい” in 落としがい
What's the difference between というものではない、というものでもない and というわけがない?
What's going on when a -ku godan verb like “叩く” gets conjugated to “叩かれ”?
Why do many adverbs end with ず?
Meaning of Calligraphy Phrase “sumi tsugi”
What does して have to do in [駅を降りたら、どこからともなく美味しそうないい匂いがしてきた。]? [duplicate]
is 対する an adverb in[ 彼女は質問に対する肯定とも否定ともとれる返事が上手い。]?
What is the best translation of ''address'' in this context?
Someone could explain me what is the meaning of に in this sentence?
How to understand the pronunciation as listed in Wiktionary
past tense た plus で
What does て-form plus が mean?
Is there any difference between 学園 and 学校?
Usage of は over に to mark seasonal changes
What do these 2 symbols mean [closed]
~たform　／　~辞書form　+　場合は
modifying a noun
How often and where usually is ずとも encountered?
how to interpret きみがそうだったように?
“一般の人” or “一般の な人 ” ,which the right one?
Could someone help me make sense of the name on this image?
で and に when you use them!
Are “au” & “ue” vowels?
Semantic classification of verbs
Meaning of っていうのは without っていうことだ
「だが」は単なる「が」に言い換えることができますか
Whether 公武法制応動十八箇条 is historically true
What does the “も” mean in ”ーてもいいですか”
Does the name Yoshi from Super Mario mean anything?
Positioning of small kana in compound kana
「遊び倒す」の意味は、「飲み倒す」や「食べ倒す」と全然違いますか？
What is this もの referring to?
Person name + 的
二百十日 is read as にひゃくとおか. What about 百十日 or 三百十日? [duplicate]
なんて言わないで自己申告制, meaning of で?
Why is the particle omitted in this relative clause?
「〜ますです」: is it correct, and what kind of speaker would talk this way?
Nominalization with 「ん」and its use for humans
くれれば and くれば difference
Possible Nuances of 「まで」 in sentences like these
If both 五 and 伍 mean “five”, when should I use each one?
The meaning of “そうかかんない” in this sentence [duplicate]
Significance of 式 in ねずみ算式に増える
Which translation is more probable for this conversation?
Meaning of 崩れかける
Does 友達 have the plural marker たち “built-in”?
Interpreting きている
Difference between Xはどこ and どこがX
Does 「本わさび入りねり」 translate to “true/regular wasabi in paste”?
Is 帰る correct in this sentence?
How to translate フォー・ダークネス
Is ホテルブレッド the name of a hotel?
What is the sequence of writing the 卍 kanji?
Is どう言う a form of 「quote」と言う?
～は止めた方がいい　or ～を止めた方がいい
Frequency of 「気になる」 in this way
Do you think it's a good practice to learn writing hiragana using Gothic fonts? [duplicate]
Is ノーマル customary in reference to being straight
Evolution of the pronunciation of the surname 中嶋/中島 from “Nakashima” to “Nakajima”
Word types + に/を + する
「大分違う」in this sentence
Why do these two sentences take different particles (に and で) despite being broadly similar?
politeness with と思う
元に戻した/戻った which?
What does まんが in this passage mean?
Verb + ことが○○です vs verb + 〇〇です
How common is this sentence pattern in Japanese?
Leaving the Office for the Day（お先に vs お疲れ様vs ありがとう）
Which kanji is this? [closed]
Emphasizing words in Japanese
形になっている vs 形をしている
Inserting も inside a suru verb
What's the reading of 空く?
Is my sentence correct?
Habitual te-form and -imasu form, combined with future intent
Habitual aspect
What comes after this くらい
Why is this sentence passive?
The 「上がれる」 in this sentence
Why can some particles not precede the の particle?
Pronunciation of 水/みず/mizu [duplicate]
Is it considered natural to use ども (in the context of 'even if') in written or spoken Japanese today?
what does いずる mean?
おタバコお吸いになりますか の意味は何ですか? [duplicate]
Meaning of そういうことだ here
Can in this passive tense structure the topic be the same as the performer of the action?
For ら り る れ ろ, is the tongue blade ever in use? [duplicate]
Abbreviation and meaning of 「よか」?
Don't know the meaning of these complex kanji [closed]
What does the combination of や and もmean?
Meaning of を in 博士たちは水際を歩いた。
Which came first: いや (the interjection), or 嫌がる and similar words?
What is the difference between 良い and いい?
what's the meaning of とする
The different meanings of に対して
Difference between 試みる and 試す
修飾 and ending sentences in nouns
What is the difference between '礼', '礼儀', '礼に', '敬礼', and 'お辞儀'?
Meaning of 小気味のいい音？
Can I use a relative clause like this?
How do you say “the audio says…”
What does “fūtsu” mean?
I'd like someone to break these sentences down so I can understand them better
What's the meaning of “みたい” in the following context?
Difference between も兼ねて・を兼ねて
俺にでも　+　なれる meaning
Usage/context of 「私ね…」
くれてやる/くれてあげる meaning [duplicate]
Question about Japanese text (image) [closed]
What is the origin of pharmacists being called 'yakuzaishi' in japanese? Is there some relation to the yakuza?
meaning of “~たらことだ”
What is the proper way to say “to use/open an umbrella”?
Can I use my Chinese name as my Japanese name version?
My notebook is almost full
difference when using は and が with てくれる structure
Is it acceptable in Japanese to write kanji characters in the Chinese style?
Etymology of the exclamation 「よし」
Does anybody know anything about astrology to figure out what 優先度 has to do with the following sentence?
How would one say “red snow” in Japanese?
Meaning of 好感度高い in this context
Who is the narrator speaking about here?
Please explain sending ending よったか
How would you ask ''are you there ?'' on social media?
The difference between 何/なに (nani) and なん (nan)?
The order of verbs and their complement/adjunct
あげる but in an unwelcomed manner
What's the correct 'you' to use in this case?
Why would someone check if a person had a tail?
What is the meaning of 手応え in sports parlance?
What does てよりかか mean? Found in the Shinmeikai dictionary
Meaning of からはよ in this sentence
Usage of で in this sentence
is this そうなんだか a valid sentence?
How did 引っ込む and 引き込む end up with different meanings despite looking very similar?
Usage of すら in この中ではそれすら異常なスピードで進むというのか
愛する pitch accent confusion
ておく → とく in other contexts; similar 2-kana to 1-kana shortcuts?
What is the meaning of the 「が」 in 「仲間だろうが！！！！」
Sounds like Ohio Buckeye
Can 耳が痛い be used to mean 何度も同じことを言われて聞くことがつらい?
Translating どこでかまれたのかわかると、どんな虫が原因かわかることがあるので伝えてください。
Optional omission of the particle に
ガスレンジ and 電子レンジ
Intuitive way to justify this usage of「に」
いつかこれがビジネスになればなあと
オンラインショップで買えるようにしてはいる
What is the use of the particle “は” in this sentence? [duplicate]
Use of は in 「確認はされていない」
Usage of で and までに in certain verbs
Reading of 笑 in the meaning of lol/heh
What “…しもーたん” could mean?
How 出 + noun + して works in this sentence
Why is there ご in 判断
What's the difference between the -banme and -ban counters?
小さく住んでいる meaning
What function does に serve in the following sentence?
What is なん in そうなんですか
クビにします to mean “destroy”?
about the underlying meaning of 実際してない in this context
Please help me to deconstruct the grammar of this relative clause: この法律に違反する可能性がある政治の団体が活動をやめています。
Origin of Nanka
How to ask someone if it is okay to do something?
Dissecting the sentence 自分がそうなってみて、実感としてそう感じる。
Sesame sawayaka udon [closed]
Understanding 北野武 「全思考」
a question about としては問われず
Putting words like who and where together [duplicate]
What is the use of the first の in this sentence?
Does every question have to end in ga
What does クリンコ mean?
How can I find the pitch-accent pattern for 頭高型?
Should interrogative pronouns come in the subject or in the predicate?
Do I only need particles if the subject is clear?
Lack of の in 最強のポケモン誕生
Is the following sentence a set phrase?
てからに in 大学を出てからにしたら　meaning
What is ろくなもんじゃない referring to?
晟, how is this kanji used?
Am I interpreting this 出てくる sentence properly?
conjugation of なんとかならん
What is the difference in nuance between using て form and から to express “so” or “because”?
Can 退社 be used like a verb meaning “to check out” of a hotel etc?
Can 受付 be used like a verb meaning “to check in” at a hotel etc?
Is there a difference between the English flap t and the Japanese R?
「目が高い」meaning and is it actually used in conversation?
How did this girl interpret this sentence?
What is the meaning of ように in the following sentence?
Would I use で if I want to say “drawing in an art program”
Why does 結構 precede the noun instead of the verb in this sentence?
辞書形＋ように : Is there a hint to understand different usages?
What is the meaning of て-forms in this sentence?
What is 見ちゃおれん here?
Japanese 'え' sound - [ɛ] or [e]?
Can we use ために instead of で
Can I use とおり (toori) for similes?
What's the difference between 倹約 and 節約？
Difficulty understanding なり in お前の妹になんてなりはしない [duplicate]
How can I express “wearing multiple clothings” in a sentence?
Is ずから a productive structure?
Placement of この in the given sentence
How do I pronounce 疲れ
Meaning of (と)した in やんわりとした暖房
What's the difference between ともかく and とにかく?
What does こなしてみせます mean?
「思い込み」can mean something like “misconception”?
Purpose of ending this sentence with noun + が
「ことと」 in a list of actions (and だったろう)
What does “ano tonari desu” mean?
Translation of words like マサラタウン
Role of で in 勢いがさかんで、かがやかしいようす。
Does ｖている with the following intransitive verb refer to expressing the present state
Difference of using と and と一緒に as “taking action with someone”
「やっぱいや」とどういう意味はなんですか [closed]
What does the 匂 in 匂い mean?
Using the “te” form of Sugiru
Is this ~もので a grammar pattern?
Sentence Help: Adding め After the Word for Owl [duplicate]
What's the difference between [剥]{は}がす and [剥]{む}く?
~から ~まで for sizes and other non-time related subjects
Is it possible to use を with any intransitive motion verb like 戻る in the same fashion as「駅を出る」?
Stem form of a verb against normal form
Is おまわりさん a childish term?
Placement of noun + と in this sentence
What's the difference between 好む and 好き
How is “あるちゃあるけど” used?
How to say you go back to doing something
What does this sentence mean? 夕刻、夢ト見紛ウ
Shouldn't this の particle be a に particle?
What's the meaning of the てですね ending?
What does 燃費がいい mean here?
What does もらおうかな mean? [closed]
How do you pronounce 電報船? Is is でんぽうふね、でんぽうぶね or でんぽうせん?
How acceptable is it to use 持たす instead of 持たせる?
What is the difference between Vた + つもりで and V-る + つもりで?
What does テンションが異次元 mean? [closed]
What is this ううん meaning
Meaning of あいつはあいつで
The grammar of 何でもない [duplicate]
文法について “とを” はどういう意味ですか?
What's the difference between 気がする vs 思いをする?
Why is であった used in this sentance?
I can write katakana and hiragana but I cannot piece together how i would write my own name in japanese due to a difficult sound in it
What is the difference between the negative forms -ず and -ぬ?
What's the difference between 近々 and 間もなく?
What's the difference between 見本 and 標本?
What does おくれ mean in this context?
Use of など after a counter
Confusing usage of 写る
What's the difference between 発信 and 配信
のか vs か in asking a question
When is it fine to use 違う?
Is 基督{キリスト} really an 当{あ}て字{じ}?
How was こき使う formed?
Breaking down the phrase 俺は学校にいたはずだ
What is the difference between ところに/へ and ところで?
what does いたまえ mean and how was it conjugated? [duplicate]
noun + を + nounする vs noun の noun を する
Is there a difference between さみしい and さびしい？
Role of な in といってな
Function of と in the following sentence [duplicate]
What purpose does「お願いだ」serve?
Meaning of はじめからわかってるだろ
Conjugation of する verbs like 発する
ながら vs ながらも – what are the subtle differences?
What is オーション and why is it called that?
Position of は relative to other particles
what does だけに mean in this?
What's this kanji in the sentence?
What is the difference between でいる and である in this example?
How was 組まされた conjugated?
に/へ/が/か in describing place
Does 作る mean “get” in this sentence?
How to say “and her” as in “Your Sister and her husband” in Japanese
What is the semantic contribution of 献 to 文献?
Correct pronunciation of voiceless bilabial fricative [ɸ]
What is the meaning of 出来が違い?
Understanding 「…でけっこうですので、…」
What's the difference between 折衷 and 妥協?
Problem understanding 泣きたい日もあるじゃない
Special か or basic か for making questions?
Avoid Repetition
Why does the kanji for coffee have a king 王 radical?
List number of family members with counters
Difference Between ほかに and ほかは
と言ってました and は confusion
What difference in meaning does 本/実 give in words like 本物 and 実物?
Meaning of 「振り回される」 and 「身になる」in this sentence
Difference between 定める and 決める
Confusing words that sound like a name and a suffix
Difficulty understanding とは in the sentence まさか昼からとはね。飯行こうぜ。 [duplicate]
Help translating line from Japanese song
Usage of interrobang (?!) in Japanese
Using stem (ます) form when linking sentences/ideas? [duplicate]
Interpretation of めったに人前に現れないものもいる
“そうにない” versus “そうではない”, the negative form of “そうだ”
Why does the word 昨夜 have multiple pronunciations?
difference between 本当な , 本当の and 本物
Question about past tense with noun
How was 手伝わなあかん conjugated?
気を使う meaning and example sentences
Using は instead of を here, the differences?
What does 戯んでいた mean?
How to say “how are your Japanese studies going?”
Why is there a し in 嫉妬し蹴落とそうとする?
What is the difference between 言いだし and 言いだす?
The meaning of は (wa) in 四月は君の嘘 (“Your Lie in April”)
ほど translation in this sentence
What does います mean if used as an answer to a question?
Understanding 一番 when used with たくさん or 多い
What is the semantic contribution of 配 in 配慮? Or in general, what is 配 really?
Help me identify this kanji on my knife box
Is there a story behind drawing a face with の as eyes, も as a nose and へ as a mouth?
What is the difference between higashi (ひがし) and touyou (とうよう)?
Is there really any difference between だなんて and なんて?
How would I translate ’期待されとっても倒れたら’ in this sentence
Difference between 伯母 and 叔母 and how to translate them into English
Confusion between ~に似てる　~と似てる
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
How does 方 becomes なた in 何方?
Concept of Negative Form of Auxiliary Verbs
Is きれい related to きたない? Is there a dictionary of such inflections?
Why do we need する in 送ったりする時
What's the meaning of 通じづらい, and how was it conjugated?
What's the difference between 声明 and 宣言?
Meaning of “作ってくれた人達” in this sentence
Why is 自分たち used here?
Can を be use instead of が?
Should I say 午後 once, twice or something else?
Do ふえる and へる have a common etymology?
What is the difference between 連用形 'て-form' and the い-stem?
What is the proper form of a short question with an i-adjective vs. a na-adjective?
meaning of つかなく and can word ending in ない be conjugated as i adjectives?
What's the difference between 特定する and 指摘する
How to write the English “sh” ⟨ʃ⟩ in Japanese?
Usage of の vs を for the direction of a place
あの二人{ふたり}はどうもできているらしい's “できている”
Confusion over the use of particle in this verb form 時を…鳴らせ…
何もかも and 全部 usages
Meaning of でも in this special context from しまこうさく　まなが
quotation marks「」vs ””
How do fathers say “I” when talking to their children in Japanese?
Use of から in 家まで送るから [duplicate]
Why is Lucoa using 僕 when referring to herself?
が合わせて versus の合わせて
Why is volitional form used before ということになった (decide?)?
What's the difference between 滞在する and とどまる
わからない vs わかね in My Boss My Hero
What is the purpose of 「ん」in this sentence 「忙しいんだよ」? [duplicate]
Meaning of らいじょうぶ
What is the difference between the negative forms -ず and -ぬ?
Can たり be used in a sentence with only one verb? [duplicate]
What does には do in this sentence, and which part is responsible for the “for me” nuance?
取らせたら: doubts about the Japanese causative form
Is 入れ物 different from other A-物 expressions? [duplicate]
How does state-of-being + んだ differ from んだ + state-of-being
How did Ukraine get its own kanji?
What is the difference between ていたつもりだったが and ているつもりだったが?
Help with translation of song line - confusing use of particles, unsure how to deal with a pun
Can this sentence be interpreted in more than one way?
Noun or Adjective?
What's the difference between 合意 and 同意？
When to use verb ます vs plain form
ジ in Asia (アジア) sounds different to ジ in John (ジョン)
テープでいいです vs テープでいいです - how to use the correct tone to differentiate them?
話します vs 話しています in a News Article
Difference between 聞こえる and 聞かれる / 見える and 見られる
how was なりそうな conjugated?
Translation of 同じで in 同じで分かり合ってる
About 「同{おな}じ」 and 「同{おな}じく」
How to tell the function of と at a glance?
The difference between 解説 and 説明 (and 解釈)
Does 左様なら (sayōnara) have Chinese roots?
Usage of が in this paragraph
What does というのである mean here?
Function of より before a noun in a phrase
が in ゆえに or んがため; が > の shift? [duplicate]
What is the difference in koi o shita, ochita, shimashita?
What is the difference between 写真を撮る and 写真に撮る?
What is the suffix らっしせる?
What is など in this sentence?
ことが as an infinitive?
これで決定 vs これに決めた
に usage and meaning in 旅行代金の請求書の控えを2枚目に送った
美味しさに国境はない correct meaning
Why do some numbers have two readings?
Reading of 上 in the sentence:じょう or うえ [duplicate]
How do you read and translate “十二鬼月” in Japanese and English?
Proper reading of 面
Cardinal and intermediate directions
Is “A ディバイディッド・バイB イコールC” the correct Katakana translation of “A ÷ B = C”?
Which is correct: の or を + 勉強に [duplicate]
How to read “(x+y)^z” in Japanese?
What's the difference between 災い and 禍
What does アレだし mean? [duplicate]
住んでいた時 or 住んでいる時
Can 何も be used with large grammatical constructions? [duplicate]
the difference between 恨めしい and 憎らしい
What's the difference: 楽観的 vs のんき
Regarding 7日, 9日, and counting 40, 70, 90
About the specific difference between 見えます and 見られます
What is the meaning of 変わんないな [duplicate]
Why use 受身形 in “便利になったとはいえ、問題も残されて”?
Is the kana for ''Oh!'' ''あっ!''? [duplicate]
What does 誰も do in this sentence, and is it needed?
How was 出さず conjugated from 出す?
って at the end of sentence
What is the meaning of「もう」in this sentence?
Meaning of “4歳と14歳で、生きようと思った”
When do i use は for きのう,きょう,あした? [duplicate]
What's the proper form (formal/informal) to use when speaking to others online?
How to say Space Fox? [closed]
Politeness of 何をお願いしましたか
のんびり vs ゆっくり vs くつろぐ
What does 「学校が学校」, 「年が年」and such mean exactly?
What's the よ in 武器よさらば? [duplicate]
とても、とってとても、超、めちゃ、めちゃくちゃ、物凄く、すごく、本当に、まじで differences in terms of degree and usages
Ambiguity in a sentence
The day of the month
How to describe something as verb-able?
Why が instead of は here for reasoning clauses?
Tom Nook “Tanukichi”
What does あったりと mean?
Why does 全員 sound like zein but is written zenin (ぜんいん)?
Seemingly non-interrogative use of sentence-ending か
Using 「という」to describe things
Can 気 be used for advice?
in this sentence what function does と take
what does つった mean?
What's the difference between だって vs にしたって
Can a て conjunction be used in a relative clause?
Use of こと in this sentence
What does わけ mean in this sentence
僕は死んだら vs 僕は死んでも
What does this mean? Second sentence confuses me
Difference between using が and の in these sentences [duplicate]
What does 言いあったり mean and how is it conjugated?
ことに(と)なった indicates reason/cause?
When does 彼 refer to a person of indeterminate gender?
どっちも meaning: both vs either
Why did Japanese evolve to have a ''she'' mora instead of a ''see'' mora in さしすせそ?
助けられる vs 助けてもらう, what's the difference?
How to interpret 入っちゃって as a command?
Can you omit the action when using と and help understanding/parsing this sentence
母になる vs. お母さんになる
What is the difference between 護る and 守る?
紙に書きます or 紙で書きます – which is correct?
How does ないと signify “must” in Japanese sometimes?
Using commas when chaining verbs
Can you build the passive with Verb te-form + しまいました instead of the passive form of the verb?
use of の in this sentence
use of だって after 私
Meaning of 怒られた, scolded or angry at?
-te iku form with repetition / habitual action
Why is 見つけません inappropriate here?
meaning of お世話になる in this context
Disambiguating に and を
On the meaning of そんなの秒で
体言止め can only be applied to サ変名詞 when する is just する (and not past or passive), right?
Can 変身 be used instead of 変化 in this case?
Difference between 感謝している and 感謝する
Turning verbs into nouns
When stating the time does minutes 分 need to be stated?
How does “shashin yako” translate to “burn the pictures”?
Literal translation 様子見くらいいいっしょ
Medieval Japanese
Particles じぇ and じょ
Literal translation 様子見くらいいいっしょ
Does 'masu' form have its own te-form?
Is there a relationship between 呟く and 粒?
What is the difference between 'ぼくたち' and 'ぼくら'?
Difference between 料金に付く and 料金に入る
Meaning and structure of this sentence [duplicate]
meaning of って (Dragon maid related)
what does かれてた mean in 連れてかれてた [duplicate]
What does くるんてしてて mean？
Why does やすい conjugate to やすく in 分かりやすくいえば?
Newspaper sentence translation and interpretation [closed]
「見つかりません」v.s.「見つけません」
Question about ていくand 意志 (and side question about と usage with verbs)
Why can't passive be used to express dissatisfaction from somebody failing to do something?
Usage of 性 as a suffix in 事件性
Usage of てーform in this example sentence
How do you pronounce sentences with consecutive “o” such as 日本語を話す?
Difference between すれ違う, 外れる and ずれる plus something about grammar
Context when answering questions
What does the phrase 「あんのかないのんか」 mean?
What's the difference between 解凍（する） and 溶ける
泣けばいいと思ってて綺麗事ばかりな主人公にイライラする。
is writing sentences in full kana instead of having a kanji acceptable? [duplicate]
Why is “Encouragement of Climb” written in katanana instead of hiragana?
Translate “Scratch that” in the meaning “disregard previous statement” to Japanese
Causation of i-adjective
Can one noun be modified by both a clause and a の marked noun?
What is this character in this SFX?
Help understanding 意味で in these sentences?
How to interpret this mismatched furigana?
Help understanding this phrase ヘマッたことが多すぎて?
スポーツと礼の関係について translation
なく after a verb, what are the uses?
(よ)うが～まいが / (よ)うと～まいと vs かどうか
How would a fluent speaker understand ありがとうございません?
Why can we not use に to mark absolute time with i-adjectives?
What is the difference between 時間 and 時期?
How to say “Sheriff” in Japanese?
Why is のだった used here?
Question about original meaning of primitives in Heisig method
Verb(ますstem)にくい vs Verb(dictionary form)のは難しい
What is the meaning of 外 after a verb?
trouble understanding phrase 設定のイメージに近い仕上がり
Reading 開く in SharePointで開く
Reading 開く in SharePointで開く
Help reading name
How to omit and change female end particles?
Help understanding せんで?
Respectful terms for parents
Why is 料理 used?
"What is そいつら and what kind of conjugation is 知らんからな?
I don't understand Genki1's explanation of using の after verbs [duplicate]
Is ゼミ a synonym for a university class?
Can someone help me identify some characters? [closed]
What is the purpose of のある in 人気のある?
Can たら be used like “ever since?”
Particle-と used with numbers: Are these different?
“Xうわ”? What is X in image?
Could someone please explain the meaning of 場面に合った?
How is というのは different from は?
What's the difference between 偏る and 傾く?
Professional titles for IT Engineers
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
「と」I'm kinda confused with the usage of it here
What is a 平の家? Does 子ども refer to here? The chicks? Finally. .what does it mean to be とても はやかすの
When writing a flower, can you simply write its name alone instead of adding の花
What does 「夏がめぐりめぐって」 mean?
What is with “Yuru Camp” title?
Goo Dictionary: What does it mean? [closed]
Nuance of もらう in 毎日使ってもらえるものがいい
私と同じ or 私のと同じ when comparing possession
What exactly is the function of と in this sentence? [duplicate]
what does すんなっつう mean?
Meaning of 何と何をする in this sentence
Usage of 僕 in song lyrics
Does anyone recognize these characters? [closed]
Using 〜ていく and 〜てくる [duplicate]
How to break down the nuances of each Japanese word translating to “somehow” or “anyhow”?
'I will GO to (verb)' vs. 'I will (verb)'
How to do the stroke for “bowl”? [closed]
幼稚園 coincidental similarity with english/german?
他にも meaning and translation
中にも meaning and translation
What is the function of 一 in バスルーム and コンピュータ?
Object of a sentence ambiguity
How commonly is てめぇ used as a synonym for 自分?
What is the phonetic component of 斜?
What does みつどもえの泡 mean?
Diffrence between 合唱, 唱和 and 斉唱
お母さんは、かわいそうだからといって、花子たちのなかへその鳥を入れてやりました。
Can the auxiliary verb Vteみる along with Vteいる i.e. Vteみている make the imperfect verb into a perfect verb
Reading comprehension N3
Reading of the number 10 as とお or じゅう?
Why is the verb 教える in this form? [closed]
What does negative verb+ほうが mean in this sentence?
Continuous state of 煙草を吸う, how to conjugate plain and te-form (polite/short)
Decoding spoken word and understanding paraphrased subtitles [closed]
別に恥ずかしいとか思わない。別に I dont get it
とりあえず… Usage in this Context?
Im confused about しちまって/ 実現しなかったら/とか
I don't understand こちらは手が出せないのをいいことにやりたい放題だ。
How common is it to use the lily flower/yuri 百合 to represent girls' love in Japanese anime? [closed]
こういうとき need help figuring out this word
Why do these sentences end differently?
What does がち mean here?
ゆ has connotations for hot water and bathhouses, are there other examples of this shorthand?
what does いて mean in ここにいても [duplicate]
Have a trouble with まで
で contradiction
Why is there a difference between the hand drawn 道 and the pc font one?
な adjectives vs い adjectives when it comes to conjugation
第3月曜日 3rd Monday or Monday in the third week
気分 vs 気持ち: physical or psychological?
Doumo or dōmo / arigatou or arigatō
Why is there a san in 照れ屋さん?
What is the meaning of the te-form + motion verb in 安心して歩ける
目が小さいですか Interpretation
整備 and 手入れ difference
Rules for slang of Japanese numbers
Difference in たくて and てwhen joining two (or more) sentences
What does ろくな mean here? And is こと a nominalizer here?
The use of や and sentence meaning
Identifying relative clauses: Is this の replaceable with が?
Is there an equivalent Japanese phrase to “A red herring”?
“Tell” in japanese
Final particles の / んだ
じゃ meaning in a sentence [duplicate]
Grammatically speaking, what is もう一つ?
What is ~てみ form？
Possible omission
What does “言っとかんとなあ” mean?
Difference between も and や particle when listing nouns [duplicate]
オレはまだ死にたくねえんだ: what is たくねえ?
What is the meaning of this sentence [closed]
「そうなの？！」、「マジで？！」、「本当に？！」
Is the main clause in the relative clause construct an actual clause?
What grammatical form is “食わねえ。” using, and what does it mean?
The thing in the left of 印
もなく function and grammar
私のうち Usage & Meaning
くれる used for actions not directed at oneself
Can Vte差し上げる be used?
Quoting an utterance (Genki help)
I need help to understand this grammar
水着もってくりゃよかった From Dragon Ball Ch3
Counter word for (western) chess pieces
Does this mean anything? 私たちはしておりません
I can't understand the use of と in 新しい政策はあまり良いとは思えません。
The translation of the 11th sentence of chapter 31 of Assimil “Japanese With Ease” makes me wonder about が and も
How do I read 係?
Does ''desu'' and ''desu ka'' go with ''kara''?
Usage of した時 vs. している時?
repeating words such as 俺は
Difference between よもや and まさか?
How is ほか used as a conjunction?
What is the function of でも in the following sentence?
わからなくなってしまう Iｍ confused
Is my translation accurate? 自分の思ってる事『を』人『に』伝えられないだけじゃないんですか…？
Few questions about this quote 力求むるも、修羅に染まれぬか！腑抜けが！
で and と when used to chain nouns
Classification, compounding, and order of particles
Confirmation on ''a quarter past/to'' regarding time
A question about 思っての愛のある
difference between よ and んだ
Meaning of 引く in ひょっとして俺が一発で正解引いたから、怒ってるのか？
Reading comprehension questions: の + verb construction; clipped sentences; and 言葉のあや
Using 「呟く」 while speaking with someone else
causative form of an adjective
Saying “I'm going to sleep”
What do しよう and しよっ mean in this page?
What does さばき切れます mean?
What part of speech is: 延命・処置
How to break down the sentence この薬は世界で１４万人に使うぐらい用意される予定です?
What does this symbol mean? [closed]
Would you please correct my translation?
What is the difference between「下げる」 and 「下ろす」?
How to say: “What's the longest you have gone without sleep?” or the pattern for “the longest one can go without something”?
aru vs iru : Why is aru in “Watakushi-wa untenshu-ga aru” (私は運転手がある) unacceptable?
お目にかけますのは <- is it correct
A question regarding お迎え入れること適わず and 身の上にて陽の下
How do you say 〜て form in Japanese?
Usage of Vてかなわない
What's the difference between 鍵 and 鑰?
Adjectival noun in this sentence
ここを行かれる　meaning [duplicate]
じゃな + Noun grammar
“も” versus “でも”
What was wrong with my translation?
Most natural way to say “This movie was good” [duplicate]
Is 方 being used as a suffix in this sentence?
Specifying what's different between two things, 違い
Conjunctions using stems, and its conjugation
Difference between あまり and そんなに when used with a verb
手を差し伸べる vs 手伝う vs 助ける
How is 仕掛け used in this sentence?
どれくらいです vs どれくらいあります
How do などという/なんて differ from とか/など?
Is the word ムキムキ a deliberate visual pun?
Suffix まい in this context
な-adj/noun + ので [because structure]
Interpretation of この人の家族『は』一体どんな気持ち『で』100万円出したんだ…?
Difference between 傷つくand 苦しむ
clarification about ながら and だが being linked together
What does 「うざいどす」 mean?
What does the word 「おめっち」mean in this sentence?
Question about the repetition of 「隙間」
頑張る　and　最善を尽くす differences
Meaning of Mako variant Kanji from Final Fantasy 7
Is using ありません common when apologizing?
What is the difference between 次の週 and 来週?
Particulars of 『に』 and 『で』 in this context [duplicate]
On the meaning of ようにするには
Pronunciation of りゆう：Riyū or Ryū
し合う vs 互いに. What nuance do they add or what is the nuance when one is removed from a sentence?
Distances between places using 離れる
まし vs 楽 when used as comparison
Why is 未来 read as あした?
Is there a difference between 生出 and 生産？
What is the meaning of 月 in this sentence?
What is the difference between 末 and 終了?
How does this Japanese sentence differ from this “official” English translation (ついでに体も繋がっちゃう)?
に with action verbs
How do online dictionaries find the correct pronunciation of kanji in context?
Higher amplitude in accented mora?
Reversing the syllables of a word
Difference between です and をする in the following passage
What is the difference between くらい～はない & ほど～はない?
What do these symbols in manga mean?
君を思う気持ち meaning and nuance
How do you express “it's getting colder” in the past tense? I.e. “It was getting colder.”
What's the difference between 取り消す vs 取り下げる?
Why is volitional verb used before 〜ように (in order to)?
Does anybody knows coloquial meaning of ネギの妖精?
What's the difference 随分{ずいぶん}, 大分{だいぶ} vs 非常{ひじょう}に?
Meaning of ヒラリ in this context
Difference between 呟く and 囁く
casual equivalent of よろしく
What does 空 mean in this sentence?
When is Vている the continuation of action and when is it the continuation of state?
Confusions on usage of the past tense ていた and た to express an ongoing actions and states (namely, 'has/has been' doing something):
Why add 時点 to a (year / month / day) date?
Difference between 怒鳴る and 怒鳴りつける
Is 会いたくなる　one way to say “I miss you?” [連絡とったら、会いたくなるやん] What is the nuanced meaning of 会いたくなる in this context?
I don't understand 私なのを
残り一分を切る meaning
How do I interpret this usage of として?
What's the difference between 愚痴 and 文句 (and 悪口）
I'm half and a Japanese man said to me: 「ハーフ憧れる」What does it mean?
愛しい and 美しい and 悲しい
Conditional or must with はず in と、ならないはずの
Isn't the を particle only used with verbs? [duplicate]
きのう、私は VS. 私はきのう
Question regarding alcohol: Meaning of " 飲める！甘いのだけ”. More context in description below
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
Difference between 普段 and 通常
What is なって in 本物っぽいなって
What does おは顕示欲 mean?
ございます after adjective (with ウ音便)
Can the modifier form ( な/い) of an adjective follow the subject marker when there is no noun to modify?
In a song, if somebody wanted to say to their deceased mom, “We loved you so much.” what form of love would you use?
Meaning of ~ようかな between “I wonder if I should…” and “I guess I'll…”
The meaning of 「どこでも傘下」
Expressing “now” in Japanese in terms of Changes (もう vs 今 vs なった)
What is the difference between なっている vs なった。
てきた in terms of aspect?
「今日{きょう}の夕食{ゆうしょく}は私{わたし}がごちそうします。」 Will I make the 夕食{ゆうしょく} or am I inviting someone to eating somewhere?
が and に interchangeability and difference in meaning
Meaning of 私だって、する時はするよ。
How do you describe or specify a person with verbs? (convert verbs to adjectives)
What's the structure of this lyric sentence? 「置いてかなくちゃいけないのかな」
Differences between 「発覚」 and 「露見」
Three grammatical questions about Japanese Manga
Why use 終わらせる in this sentence? [duplicate]
Difference between からすると and にしたら
Native speakers reading ～ても/～のに/etc sentences
What is the difference between というのは or は when used as a topical marker?
承る and 賜る: are they etymologically related? [duplicate]
Can 所{ところ｝ in 「日{に}本{ほん}の良{い}い所{ところ}」 have two possible meanings: places or points?
Why the specific spelling “一つひとつ”?
彼は兄弟がいます actually 彼には兄弟がいます with に omitted
Why is とは used over に in this Sentence?
山と積む: what does this と mean?
The name ジューリオ: is it wrong to write it like this?
What is the meaning of どうかは here?
chaining the same noun with の
ん replacing ない for group 1 verbs (いちだん)
すぎ to mean too much but in a good way
代表的な correct meaning
庭 & Ambiguity of Yard or Garden?
How would I translate “someone who likes (something)” into Japanese?
Meaning of 落着き先?
Differences among -たら、なら、-んだったら、-えば, etc
What does 次に繋がる デート mean?
On the meaning of 場になって思う
Having trouble understanding a sentence from 1945. Especially 滿鮮二土著セシメテ生活ヲ營ム [closed]
Meaning of の 〜でも [closed]
Scope of の in a sentence with two of them
Causative form of “neru” (sleep)
What's the difference between 意向　ｖｓ　意思?
What does Kenneth Henshall mean by “X is used phonetically to express Y”?
とは and というのは：Same or Different?
how do you say 'super rad day!' in japanese? [closed]
What is the meaning of できる in 「影{かげ}がどこにできる」?
Difference in meaning between は and が in questions [duplicate]
Confused over which is more grammatically correct here: ～たことをごめんなさい or ～たことはごめんなさい
What's the point of adding とした here in this sentence? [duplicate]
Sentence Structure Question
What is “られん” in “付き合ってられん”? I can't found it in dictionary?
When using につれて, does the direction of change have to be the same?
How to go about differentiating って meaning [duplicate]
What's the difference between 有名, 人気, and 盛ん?
Pitch Accent Patterns with Pluralized たち Nouns
Question About ~てもらう [duplicate]
一週間前までに Meaning
Why is “Wikipedia” written as ウィキペディア instead of ワィキペディア?
Can i omit commas in sentence with multiple verbs connected by て-form (with “and” meaning)?
の: Noun modifying an adjective? [duplicate]
What does 真っ赤な in the example sentence referring to?
Difference between 影響 and 効果
What is the difference between 賢明 and 聡明?
How to politely address an older relative's birthday card
Using an adverb with a noun in Japanese
I really can't understand the use of に + と USED TOGETHER in this clause
Conjugation with こと and もの
Replacing いい in ～て(も)いい & ～ないで(も)いい
Usage of 言えばいいわけです in this sentence from IAIJ
What is the difference in meaning between じゃなかった vs じゃない?
How do I interpret 弄りがいこそ
What is the difference between そして and そしたら
What is the difference between 盲目 and 目の不自由な？
道の先に makes no sense for me
what is the difference between 肝臓 and 肝 • 胆?
What is the difference between “verb＋て＋みる” and “verb＋(よ)う+とする”?
How do I write “Discord” (the app) in katakana? [closed]
Definition of 'Scramble Road'
Reason for 風が強い vs. 雨だ or 雪だ
How does this phrase mean “it is better if”?
Difference between these sentences [closed]
Is 明鏡国語辞典 being over-prescriptive in its usage note for 「〜を買う」？
Tried my best to decipher a long sentence from a tweet. Please help me see if I understood correctly
Multiple は particles in sentences from IAIJ and NHK web easy
How to say “This (object) of (possessor)” in Japanese?
委託 vs 託す vs 預ける
What kind of speech is sentence final 〜なも associated with?
Should I call the basic calculator app on iPhone 電卓app or 計算機app?
Doubt about the meaning/usage of「分」
interpretting よくこれだけの言い訳が出るものだ
The meaning of this 痛い
Who is it referring to in 舌先が動き、吸い上げられる度に呼吸が荒くなる
～ば良い方だった meaning in this sentence from IAIJ
Comparing adjectives to describe a noun
Why use 流されていく in this sentence?
Verb with association with single verbs
Meaning of で+やる
Placement of と in this sentence
What does “言葉の裏の想いが 心の首筋舐めた” mean?
How to express “thanks” when I am made to do something
Negative connotation with “あんた”?
Purpose of の before でしょうか [duplicate]
をきっかけに vs をいいことに
きっと and かな used in a sentence
刻 means “time”?
て form at end of phrase but not being used for requests
Which is the kanji for “light”?
Does the honorific prefix お/ご have an effect on pitch accent?
Why is the potential form of 滑る 滑れる and not 滑られる？
Can i use で instead of に in this context
Difficulty reading Kanji that is handwritten, any suggestions? [closed]
Literal meaning of と-Particle in これより濃いと消毒する力
Difference between “sha” and “in” (i.e. 研究員 vs 研究者) [duplicate]
Which version of the name こうき means happiness?
Question about phrase in よつばと！
Meaning of ~たことにする and もんだ
How to parse と世界観の中で
Why did です eventually overtake なり？
“Try not to” in japanese
How do you say numbers/letters in a skipped sequence or connected by a dash?
に particle used with ある
What is the difference between 旦, 夕 and 汐?
Is there any difference between 一緒に and と一緒に? [closed]
How to express condolences to someone with terminal illness?
Is あらまあ linked to Malay “alamak”, and which came first?
に particle used with noun
Help me understand the first three lines from 松任谷由実’ｓ　「甘い予感」
Use of で in 小川さんは語学が得意で、フランス語もイ夕リア語もできます
What's the difference between と思いきや and と思った
What is なって in 本物っぽいなって
Usage of other word forms
ないと attached to a verb
How to say “make it sound like〜”?
Is it possible to attach になる to a verb
How would you express “sphere” or “world” in the Japanese language?
Is there a difference in using で and に in these two example sentences?
What's the difference between に至っては and ときたら
What is the difference between 保たせようと and 保とうと in this sentence?
Understanding Basho haikus in difficult calligraphy
Pronouncing 俺 as おら
how to say “follow up appointment” in Japanese
「受注」と「発注」meaning in specific sentences
NHK Coronavirus Article Sentence Translation Help with たり and も
Translation of 月がきれい
Why is the Japanese term for grammatical case 「格」? How did this translation come to be?
What is the meaning of 「はあ」 in this excerpt?
Are 俯かせる and 俯ける the same?
What does っす at the end of a sentence mean?
Polar connotations in the same word: 断り and 惜しい
How to analyze sentence, クラスについてどう思いますか?
Breaking down long sentence
When to use 丁寧語 and when to use 謙譲語　when talking about myself
Why should one use the dictionary form instead of the potential form in this case?
What's the difference between 仰ぐ vs 見上げる?
Can the verb ある be used with the grammar ~せずに?
Can Japanese be written without any kana (kanji only)?
Do the following, and similar sentences, work grammatically?
structure of 男子には畏怖を、女子にはキモイと影で言われてる
What is 「長い」 modifying in the sentence 「もう日本に来て長いんですか」?
using か with a verb
Is there a Kanji for the Japanese word イクラ as in salmon roe?
understanding the term 落ち着いた暖色の照明
What is the difference in usage between 港 and 港湾?
休んだほうがいい仕事ができます translation
What's the use of で at the end of this sentence?
describing where things are [duplicate]
Can time phrases be used in sentences using あります to show possession?
What does という do in this sentence?
Relative clause confusion: “whose company I am leaving” or “who is leaving the company” [closed]
「つきおうて」や「あいおうて」はどういう意味でしょうか？
What does “近侍の臣” mean?
what does 本体の宿り木たる霊樹が、いわば本体と言えるのだ。mean?
Linking two verbs --> 送り始める
How to say “self-isolation” or “quarantine” in japanese
What does the に do in 表情から察するに?
て versus combining-form for joining clauses
What's the difference between ～きれる and ～あげる?
Can きっと be used as for sure?
what does してん do here? [duplicate]
Differences between なり and 〜たとたん
Why choose 見てからでないと in this question?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
Is 「何に」 read 「なにに」or 「なんに」?
Can くれる means myself doing things to myself?
How is たる being used here? [duplicate]
conjugating before and after a くれ
Why are points used where furigana would be normally?
に in passive sentence
に without a verb in a sentence
Meaning of まだしも
the omission of an implied “の” creates the appearance of a 四字熟語{よじじゅくご}?
discerning who “擦れ違う者” is with minimal context
この工場は規模こそ小さいが、年商は数十億円に上がる。
から and より used one after the other
What is the difference between “悪化した場合” and “悪化する場合”?
Main usages of the た-Form
Differences between「せめて」 and 「少なくとも」
How does adding 大切に to 使っています change its meaning?
Insight into one of Japan's regions which is called 中国
Cultural question: Why「本当？」and「んだ？」are so popular?
Sentence structure. 学生は、工場で何を作っているときに、見学をしますか。
Intelligibility between Tohoku dialects
What does 精々足掻け mean?
Insight into 林檎 and 苹果
で in 完全変態で、生まれ変わったように
Meaning and usage of よほどのこと
三分 (3 minutes) pronunciation is sanpun or sampun?
います and あります usage
What does それすら来ないと言うこと means?
Meaning of “おめーさん” in “ところでおめーさん” if it's not someone's name [duplicate]
給料を 下げられた vs 引き下げられた
Is “Hello Kitty” a pun for “I’m excited”?
どうしようもない vs 気がしてならない
Etymology of レントゲン?
musukotachi or musukosantachi?
What does 弁当箱をしまった mean?
How do you say 町 (in addresses) in English?
“Should have” in japanese [duplicate]
How to interpret 身にしみる in this sentence?
What is the proper way to use 余[よ] as a personal pronoun?
ガードがばがばになっから meaning
What does 食欲がわく translate into?
To be allowed to do x y z
what does ごと here mean?
Number representation in novels
Is ので the same as のだ?
Don't understand this use of ～さえ～ば
名前の語呂合わせはなんですか / Wordplay in names
What's the meaning of ~までして/までした in these sentences
はたまた meaning at end of sentence
What does その場に広げる means in this context?
The meaning of ”あれは魔術師に与えられた祝福”
How often do single dots stick to the top of kanji?
Why do people use です／ます in some intimate situations?
Help me translate this (particle で, etc.)
When and how to use 家は, 家から, ここは, and ここから
Is the Japanese か more rounded than the Chinese 力?
Question about the possible nuances in this sentence
Question about the kanji 兵
the meaning of 手は抜けない
How to express “such that” at the beginning of a sentence
Difference in adding a たとえ [duplicate]
How to interpret あたり in this sentence?
What are the origins of ヶ?
Why is “学校があるからお休みが染みるんだなあ” a poem?
Is there a kanji for いいですね? [duplicate]
What is the meaning of にこだわる?
Meaning of the '可愛がりたく' in '可愛がりたくなんだよ’’？
東北弁 Pronunciation Question about J's
東北弁 Pronunciation Question about Ch's
必要 and 必要性 usages
What does 連ツイ mean in this sentence?
What are the difference in nuance between 置いている、置いてある、置いておく?
How does ことはあっても connect this otherwise 2 part sentence into one?
What particles can be used with 気にしない?
Meaning of もクソも in 何かもクソも寝るだけだよ
How to say “It is unfortunate that the class can't meet”?
Why does one have to use ながら instead of つつ in this sentence?
can を comes at the end of a sentence?
What does 経つ mean with 結構?
Difference between 溢れていた and 溢れている
Is using the particle は twice here natural?
Converting sentence to 強調構文
ている: 上がっています Context and Resultive State?
Is ま (ma) related to ほ (ho) or は (ha) related to よ (yo)? What does adding a bar to the left mean?
Does [契る] apply to marriage? [closed]
Just by: だけで vs ばかりに
Why is Atom not given any honorifics in アストロボーイ・鉄腕アトム? Is it because he's a robot?
学年別における meaning
Meaning of phrase “to stay alive”? [duplicate]
When or What is your date of birth?
What does 本番 mean here?
Understanding a line from Bleach Episode 45
持て余していた vs 持て余している
difference in using と and で to specify context
What does [私ったら] mean?
In a complex sentence, what does the second part of the sentence refer to?
試験期間は今日を含めて約2週間後の月末 meaning
The meaning (and reading) of 間 in context of people, 境 and 混, does it mean 'getting into a group or clique'?
What is the etymological origin of the word キノピオ (Toad in Super Mario Bros)?
What exactly is 最多?
I've seen 待つ in the te-form as both 待て and 待って; the latter should be correct. Does meaning/pronunciation change and why it would be written this way
How else can you use 「だい」as in 大好き or 大嫌い?
Beginner Grammar Question [duplicate]
The 平仮名 and 片仮名 kanji
目当てにさらに Meaning
how to say pretend in the context of a sentence
I don't understand the structure of かたじけない しのぶ！！?
ておく → とく in other contexts; similar 2-kana to 1-kana shortcuts?
unusual lecture in 空かに見えやしないか?
Meaning of 日本の風土
How to say “If you can't finish the food…”
The difference between ありきたり and 平凡?
What's the difference between 「軽い」and 「身軽」?
I'm having trouble understanding what “開き直った、とも言いますが” means
correct way to use 是非 and its meaning
って meaning in this sentence? [duplicate]
XもVba YもV pattern
Word choice to mean “take care of yourself”
What's the difference between 家 and 宅?
What is the meaning of りゃ in this phrase?
行ってこなかった meaning
Meaning of ぬ added to 連用形 / masu-stem, as in 風立ちぬ
Word choice in a sentence and meaning
個々 or 此処 in じゃここは俺から名乗らせていただこう。
What does “しっかり” mean when used “叩いて”?
か細く暗い (Usage of く to describe adjective?) [duplicate]
Sentence structure for “I have been ~ for X days”
How to express alternative options where the options use different verbs
How do you say “you can do this or that”?
Meaning of 君の知らない物語
I want to make sure if the sentence is impersonal or is it about a specific person
Is there a Japanese word for “Easter holidays”?
交わり合わないような項目同士 translation
Is there anything special about single vowel words?
Meaning of 何もなし
Meaning of なき in a sentence
てくれる vs てもらう when the topic or subject is implied
How to say “give”
Difference in ていた and た
How to say 一〇年 in a sentence [duplicate]
How do you analyze : でも、やられすぎなんじゃないか?
ではあるんだろうが meaning
だから/から and なので/ので when used with anything but nouns and なadjectives
why is ni in “kinou watashimo wakaranakatta kara, sensei ni kikimashita” the particle?
differences between 許す and ごめん
ちゃう, ちゃおう and ちゃおう的な
Meaning and nuance of 詰む / 詰まる
Difference in adding a も
Lexicon for the word “pedophile”
Meaning of 性懲りも無く頭を過ぎった
Differences among -たら、なら、-んだったら、-えば, etc
How to say “respond” in this sentence
Meaning of っつーかなんつーか
Why/when should I use the different forms of this and that?
に and で usage help for these two sentences
What is the exact reason behind the usage of がin the following phrase?
Does 決して always mean “never” even if the verb is negative?
Grammar / translation trouble with 合ってる
Is どうしよう the equivalent of the Chinese 怎么办?
How to say 'fellow sweet tooth'
How is bad hand writing treated in the Japanese culture [closed]
騒がず慌てない translation
Meaning and nuance of 作戦
How should I understand 「よくね」in this comic?
Why are い-adjectives often used as nouns?
な vs の when using with nouns or adjectives
Meaning of 輪を作る in a sentence
Confusion regarding 感覚 + でいる
How does 時くれえ function here? [duplicate]
Sign says or reads
Specific meaning of 屋上
Does this に particle affect the whole phrase?
Stem of verbs vs て-form of verb in complex sentence [duplicate]
Meaning and nuance of 身を包む
What is cyan color in Japanese?
Meaning and use of ところも
Word to Convey “Comfort”
Usage of てーform in this example sentence
How would 「問わず語りの心」 translate into English?
邂逅せし瘴炎 what does the せし part mean?
Is 不死身 a possible adjective to use with regard to likely immunity to the COVID-19 virus?
How would you refer to an apartment number?
Pitch accent websites differing for certain words
Meaning and nuances and of 一通り
Difference of では　vs　には in this sentence context
Tense and conjugation: いないみたいでした v.s. いなかったみたいでした
Confusion about “Seemingly not ～”
Usage of て-form in this sentence (Combining verb and adjective)
The meaning of 示してみせろ
How do you use “iuno/いうの”？ [duplicate]
Translating back “悪即斬” from the portuguese adaptation “Justice. Here. Now”
Which is the proper form of nightfall?
Meaning of かかった毛並み in this sentence
覗かせている meaning in this sentence
What level of formality is used in companies and web pages?
What does “nise tsundere “ mean?
Japanese word for “side”
The usage of particle「に」：彼女に孫が一人いる。
What's the difference between くる and やってくる?
What's the difference between で and と
What is the grammar of ご機嫌【きげん】よう? [duplicate]
Purpose of double が in article title
Reading/meaning of 裡
Conditions of use of ようでは as “if”
Usage of たり construction [duplicate]
時代 Homograph, Written as とき [duplicate]
Two perceptions of 以上で
Differing meanings of ～しまう
What does the verbal contraction/suffix -kkya or -kya at the end of a clause mean? [duplicate]
く form of たい form of a verb
Why does けってい mean confirm?
Diffeence between てばかり(は/も)いられない and てはいられない
Use of その 結果 as "as a result'
Use of かと思ったら / かと思うと (in the context of as soon as, just when)
Difference between はもとより and はもちろん and their respective usage
～そばから and its する form
Meaning or nuance of 調きょ?
Understanding 「やったこと」 and 「〜んだ」。
Meaning of だけは in the sense of “to do all that one can”
Is the water radical sometimes three strokes and sometimes two strokes?
Meaning of 融着 in metal plating
What's the story behind 小間物屋を開く = to vomit?
読み取られ without る [duplicate]
Why are some Japanese foreign words spelled with different sounds?
Why are some Japanese foreign words spelled with different sounds?
Can You Explain the Particle Usages For These Sentences Involving 雨の中＿?
What's a natural way to say “If I can do it so can you!”?
Is there a difference between these two sentences?
Some grammar and sentence structure questions from a japanese game
Concensus on やりもらい動詞
Causative sentence translation
“Wishing for your continued success…” — a subtlety
上陸したよ. Is this slang?? How does it translate to meaningful English? Please see context in body
Meaning of (と)した in やんわりとした暖房
Meaning of 向き合う姿勢が出来
Meaning of 付いてくる and 付いていく
What does 不変的なもの mean in the context of music?
How does one express uncertainty when describing numbers e.g. 170-odd cases
Difference between 顔を合わせる and 会う
Difference between 平気, 冷静, and 穏やか
What does this sentence mean: “これぐらいで, その始末とはな” [closed]
Why does 滑り出し mean 'beginning'?
〜といっている from Dragon Ball
行かせる means “send” rather than “make someone go”
Nuanced meaning of ため
At a first meeting, saying お姉さんですか instead of お母さんですか comes off as clever or neutral? never impolite?
About what age to stop using おいくつですか？
あかさたなはまやらわ mnemonics
What does the word しゅき mean in the context of this comic?
習う学習 translation
From a Japanese PoV, what's the explanation of 「に」 particle corresponding to both western concepts of “to” and “in”
Difference between shimatte arimasu and shimete arimasu
Correct way to append a noun to a action
AはBにしてもらう＝BはAにしてくれる？
南無妙法蓮華經 … or is the last kanji 経
Help Understanding a Sentence
Question regarding the 「⻏」radical
Meaning of 羽目になる
Nuance of questions like '兄弟は何人ですか’
What is the meaning of 地道 in this context? [closed]
Meaning of 抱える other than “hold or carry in the arms”
Meaning of 扱う in a context of 'deal with someone'
The meaning of なだけに in this sentence
Difference between 見つける and 発見する
3割引 ＝3 %? 33.3 % ? 30 %?
Meaning of のかと思ったら
When translating a text, do you use “we” or “i” or “you”?
Specificity of the use of 事柄
Difference between 実践 and 実施
Can たい be used to express desire for 2nd person
Nuance of 「～なくても仕方ない」
What is the difference between the words 状態 and 状況?
Difference between 足しになる and 役に立つ
What is the meaning of 自分はいつからここにいるのか in English, and why is it phrased this way?
Difference between マネ and 行動
Differences between 理解する and 分かる
を-, と- and に-particle usage with 合わせる
やれる 対 やる, whats the difference?
Difference between 過ち and 間違い
Changing word order - topic after fact?
Difference between 断る and 真っ平
Difference between 整理つける and 受け入れる
Can I always use が to mark the subject when talking about phenomenon [closed]
新たに meaning in a sentence
plain continuous form of a verb vs appending ところ
What would be a natural way to say “to milk it for all it's worth”?
post fix てから vs たら to a verb
Correct grammar? 「僕は20歳大学生。」
そう when used with past tense of a verb
Sentence translation: 昨日、学校が終わってから、桜子の家に子犬を見に行った。
Clarification on the usage of でも in this sentence
appending なんて to a verb
メアリーがアメリカに帰って悲【かな】しいです meaning
About the Meaning of 〜ことに〜
What's the ちゃうform doing in this sentence?
Clarifying on the use of と
Use of adverb with いる
How to say “give me some time” in a certain context
He said, they said
日本語を勉強していて、楽しい？ meaning
Which order sounds the more natural between「私は最近…」 and 「最近私は…」?
Is 三角 pronounced “sangaku” in any dialects?
Difference between the following phrases
思い出 - Ludens Song Lyrics を and が with intransitive verb (流れる), is this translation acceptable?
Mixing 〜し and 〜ので in an explanation
Do requests with てくれますか、てもらえますか & Co. have the same subject?
Suffixes: らしき versus っぽい
Difficult to understand katakana of the word “though”
Can のろけ話 be used in a platonic sense to refer to closeness amongst female friends?
What happens when a speaker could not read a kanji character when reading a text out loud?
Clarification on て-form Usage on an Example Sentence and some Comparison
What's the second character?
こぇのか instead of こわいのか
で to mean “and”
What's the difference when using と and を to mark a spoken sentence
Can I say “徹底対策” instead of “徹底した対策”?
What is the meaning of 何に金を出しているのか分からせてくれる?
Why use wa / は marker with kyou / 今日？
What's the difference between compound words 複合語 and kanji compound 熟語?
How to express “X (and parenthetically Y)”?
Reading of 様 in SARS様ウィルス
Correct way to say “I only see you as a friend”
Losing concentration
Sentence withても which might not mean “even if”?
Difference between using a に particle with a noun
てくる appended to a verb can mean go and come [duplicate]
いろいろやる気が出なくて == “I'm not motivated to do anything” ?　Having trouble understanding this
When ending a sentence with an adverb, do I need to use copula?
Small あ after は?
Turning adjectives into verbs
Passive form 作られる usage
Rise in pitch right before quotative って?
What's the actual implication of 中止だ中止?
Why does she use こと at the end? [duplicate]
How to say “trying to get someone to look at something”
what the meaning of そんなある年
In Doraemon what is Big G's (Takeshi Gouda) dialogue style?
I don't understand the place where she talks about monkey and pig
What is the difference between あまつさえ、しかも and それに?
What is the difference between 風潮 and 潮流?
Simple translation for one of my Anki cards, why is 上り translated to going “downtown”?
Difference between “行くんスカ?” and “行くんですか” [duplicate]
Are these sentences grammar corrected? (お貸し、お借り) [duplicate]
What does ギスる mean?
アップは? バッチリです。How to understand this exchange?
Two は acting as contrastive terms but not verb (apparently)
覚えました - Can it mean “I learned”?
How to write foreign names that are mixed with Japanese names?
No が in a sentence
る form and おう form of verbs when used with と思う
What does よう mean in this sentence?
Meaning of 命も惜しまない in this sentence
Why じと instead of ず in その機を逃さじと? [duplicate]
「来たるべきバカのために」 in a book title
Possible interpretation? The use of 脅かされる in this sentence
what the grammar ことぐらい mean
-まい suffix usage in sample sentence
How are the different pronunciations of kanji used, such as onyomi and kunyomi?
Meaning of 見る in 「１日から２日は見て」
Why does the title of Yurikuma Arashi use katakana for yuri instead of kanji?
Are these 2 the same level of humble honorifics (謙譲語)? Which would a native choose?
What does もえと mean?
がってんなら - what kind of contraction am I dealing with in this sentence?
How to say “deserve” in Japanese
How do I apologize for my bad Japanese?
Are there any rules to the intonations they are discussing in this video?
meaning and reading of 心楽しい
Does「ペーペー」and the “PayPay” digital wallet sound like a ダジャレ? Isn't that weird for marketing?
I can't identify this semi-cursive kanji
What exactly makes a relationship どろどろ?
Past tense and continuous tense of verb (持った・持っている)
What is the meaning of putting a word in parentheses at the end of a statement [Internet Speech]?
What are acceptable ways of saying “to develop a photographic film”?
How is 所載 used?
I want to ask the meaning of this words 痛い女
Can something beside 「もの」 be between ない~でもない?
What is the etymology of the word あなた?
Can や mean “nor” in certain contexts?
Reading and Meaning of 町の主だった幹部
how to use: ~ばいいのに
あまり when used to answer a negative question
Does saying “私は次男坊です” in self-intro sound humorous? why?
How would you refer to a married couple if you were familiar with both prior to marriage?
When to use 大きい and 大きな? [duplicate]
What does “ぼうし” mean in “帰り道を照らしたのは 思い出のかげぼうし” [closed]
What is the meaning of バカにはええじゃないか?
てんで方向ちがいじゃない！ DB Chapter2 Double negatives
万引き etymology. Why does 万引き mean shoplifting
What’s the difference between サクサク and パリパリ
Pronouncing sumimasen (すみません), implications of extending the -se(せ) and eliding the n(ん)
Can we change the position of the object?
Meaning/translation of やれ
What are these vertical lines called in Japanese?
想い vs. 思い - Do Both Mean Feeling?
Relative Clauses and Adjective Placement
How is Kanojo used in this sentence?
What does しゅごい mean?
Question about 変な奴だって思う子がいたら
いらっしゃいます and なさる difference [closed]
ような (you na) vs ように (you ni) grammar question
What is the それ in それゆけ?
Implicitly self-referring honorifics
What is the difference between 振る and 揺る?
What is the meaning of まってないでつっこまないか?
Why this Transitive Verb with が
How did 優しさ derived from 優しい? The rule is？ [duplicate]
～くらいなら／～ぐらいなら・・・
How to tell similar Radicals apart?
What is the difference between 訪ねる and 訪問する?
Which god does 神様 actually refer to?
Can we use やばいぞ instead of やばいよ?
評判重視で取れるときは取るって感じで meaning?
Confused about te-form in a sentence
How to say “I learned” with comparison between two items grammar
Can you help me understand the first part of the following sentence?
体操でもしてこよっと DB Chapter 2 [duplicate]
Meaning of 親子同士のペア in the following sentence
Construction and Meaning of とき in the following cases
おまえのろいなー亀になっちゃうぞ DB Chapter 2
Will the meaning/nuance change in the following construction?
How to say “unless…?” in the context of “but what if”
“女の子の名前で雪花って変ですか？” “de” and “tte” usage
How did 沢山 (たくさん) come to mean “many”?
Squareness of kanji characters
How can I say “to be tired of verbING” in Japanese?
I'm looking for some pointers on polite, standard sentences when working in a service-oriented capacity [closed]
Word usages for hearsay: ～そうです vs ～って
Confusion about double は in correction
When to add で after つ?
What does ガッポォオォイ mean?
際に, に際して, にあたって
笑っちまう程 translation in context
Definition of “currently smoking” on a health check questionnaire
How would the english sentence structure “may you ___”, kind of like something you might hear in a toast [duplicate]
unintentionally early meetings
What is the meaning of this と “and” or “with”?
Is the first supposed invention of romaji in 1548 by a Japanese Catholic called Yajiro fact or fiction?
Struggling with identifying the 'correct' verb here (+intransitivity)
Fukushima in hiragana
帰路についてくれた translation
merging 2 verbs such as 返す and 遅れる into 返し遅れる?
Is the topic particle は sometimes interchangable with けど?
はね。。。at the end of a sentence
Expressing odds in japanese for horse racing
Why is を in this sentence: これからのお話を?
Absence of て in お気をつけください
人のことをいっときながら DB Chapter 2
What is the meaning of ついて in ついてしまう
Effect of 発 in 発殴られる [closed]
How do I know when to use の with が in a “good/bad at” sentence? [duplicate]
What is the nuanced function of 何ひとつ in a negated sentence?
のは Vs. というのは　What is the Difference?
Using こっち to replace 私
How is 口 used here?
What does this mean? Friend gave this on a piece of paper, and wanted me to translate this: こんな憂鬱なバレンタインは初めてやワクワクイべントのはずなのに!
こん中だけ昼間になったぞ DB
Mixing of non-past/past in narratives
Could either どこに男の人がいますか and 男の人はどこですか be used?
In what contexts can 旗色が悪い be used?
I want to know the difference between of 入れ歯 and インプラント
おくれ after verb meaning [duplicate]
1つの嘘から始まった連鎖は meaning
Is 情けねえ the negative form of 情け? [duplicate]
Other types of adjectives (besides い and な)
けいえい 【経営】pronunciation
What does 「うめる」means in this sentence?
Purpose of で particle in sentence from book [duplicate]
Translations of「しっとり」for describing food
appending くれる to verbs for unwanted things that someone else did
やり い-form conjunction vs て-form conjunction
How to interpret “あとはかってにちゅうもんしてくれりゃ”?
What is the difference between 補う vs 埋め合わせる
「上一段・下一段」活用動詞 - why are these groups separate?
How would you ask “What makes your mouth water?” in Japanese?
is を答える similar to を歩く?
Why does furigana often appear in the most unnecessary places in Japanese books?
What's more grammatically correct?
An equivalent of the word “hopefully” and “please be”in japanese when used in a certain context
Is the で in ～が原因で～ the copula?
Translating ～ほうがいい as 'should' — why does this seem rare?
replacing もの (noun) with もん (noun)
で at the beginning of a sentence
verbs with adjectival function?
Language rules of である beyond simply replacing です、だ
What does 「いねえのかよ」mean?
Does this dialogue imply Trunks has fought the Androids before?
Difference between どこが and どこで in sentence
What does the 好きな do in this sentence?
How do ～以上 and ～あっての work in the same sentence?
Meaning of “かぶらず” and usage of に
の and に difference in position maker
漢文・古文-type expressions that survive in modern Japanese
しれーっといてられるなと思います
Can one ever use an intransitive verb as a transitive verb?
Is の needed when describing genre?
Is there a difference between ”をなる” and ”なっていて”
Can な Adjectives be also used for combination with verbs
だったらはやくいやあいいのに DB
Difference between 沿岸, 海岸, 沿海
Can 集合 be used to refer to a meeting between 2 people only?
Short verb + な mid-sentence
Verb てform + くる what does it mean?
じゃなく、じゃなくて、じゃなくては、ではなく、ではなくて、ではなくては
How to say “you should search for x here”
Not sure what this から is for
Why does the word for “high school” use 校 instead of 学?
Number of kanji characters / words I need to learn for N3 level [closed]
には contrast in following sentence
When is it good to use “ダサい”? [closed]
Is 直感的 a noun or adjective?
Difference between 光栄, 名誉 and 栄誉
The meaning of 管を巻く
就く in sports jargon
の to prevent repetition of が
Using を when not followed by a verb
What is a good way to translate ではある?
Writing digits in Japanese
負かした俺: who beat whom in this relative clause?
Can 行くな change to 行くぬ?
Can の be used to link nouns to verbs?
Difference between から and で in context of because
What is independent form of numeral 10?
Why is 運命 read as さだめ? [duplicate]
Can anyone help me identify what some kaomoji mean please?
What does ▲ mean in a newspaper?
Meaning of 「がです」
Whether まで should be used or に to determine place of destination？
The もの in 再生したもの
は vs が in the following passage
Difference in nuance regarding AはＢがＣ and ＡのＢはＣ
Pronunciation question for consonants k/g and t/d
Combining two or more verbs for ありがとう
Could you please tell the difference between particle は and に in case of description of a place of existence
Meaning of the phase: 筋ってもん
Question about grammar, how to say “today I am returning to japan”
meaning of hiragana in a verse
How does なりすぎてしまった work?
What is the difference between NをNとする and NをNとして/に?
のです and te-form + よい
What is the proper way to describe the weather as cool?
Meaning of くれぐれも
Please help me understand the grammar of this にする sentence
Can someone explain the usage of Verb+り in these sentences please
What is the meaning of 取り戻そうと in this sentence?
What part does 「成」 play when tailed to a word?
Meaning of と in “Quantifier plus と”
Can 'し' be replaced by these sentences?
How to say “the one I sent the letter to”
Can someone explain me how this part of the sentence is connected to the other part?
The purpose of このよう な
What is the purpose of ため in sentence
Meaning of 方 in sentence
How would you say “origin of the moon” [closed]
Is 誰か行きたい人 a form of double-headed relative clause?
What is a good way to translate 漫画研究会?
Interpreting the past tense of 形容動詞 / 形容詞 / adjectives
Do Oda Nobunaga, Tokugawa Ieyasu, and Toyotomi Hideyoshi have a collective title in Japanese?
What is the proper form of “In the beginning” for this sentence?
te form + takunaru
あんまり、滅多なもの好物になるなよ
ようにして usage in a sentence
と in 急だとは思わなかった
What constitutes as Kyūjitai Kanji?
I'd like to say “We are as flowers” as in 'similar to' for a dorama title. Is 私たちは花のようです acceptable?
Riddle question
How do I use the Japanese word 素直(Sunao) for upfront?
What is the difference between 音をさせる and 音がする and 音を出す/立てる?
Which term is better to use ? さんじゅうにち or みそか?
What is the meaning and function of だというのか?
Why use と言っている instead of と言います？
How is に used in the following sentence?
感じも演出しておいた meaning
希硫酸, 稀硫酸? What’s the difference?
Combining verb and noun for ありがとう
Japanese term for “cookie cutter”
What does it mean
When to use -masu forms of -i adjectives as opposed to -kunaidesu?
What order do Japanese people say/recite the seasons?
What is the difference between 中学校の制服を翻しながら and 中学校の制服が翻りながら?
What is the meaning of function of the と (無駄と) in this sentence?
What do ~んでしょう & なんでしょう mean?
What's the grammatical function of こと in this sentence?
Can you help me understand the following sentence?
When is その used to mean “you”?
Distinction between また and も
Can someone help me understand Japanese particles?
Sentence meaning - 「それにしたって」, 「だったっていうんですもの」, 「で」
Conjugations of verb for sample JLPT question
What's the difference between らーめん and らーぬん?
the omission of an implied “の” creates the appearance of a 四字熟語{よじじゅくご}?
What is the meaning of かけてきた
いかんでは why is this answer incorrect?
Meaning of アップ in this sentence
永遠　vs 永久 difference in meaning?
What's the difference between 僕等,　我々, 僕たち, and お互い?
What does the sentence structure ＡでもＢ mean in this song?
Is the の[か] in my sentence a 準体言助詞 の[か]?
Which situation for using 併せる and 合わせる and 組み合わせる? What is difference between them?
Why does the following sentence contain など?
Please explain the use of では in this particle cluster
How are the different pronunciations of kanji used, such as onyomi and kunyomi?
What do “どゃでぇ” meaning?
How to contact again someone who did not reply to my previous mail?
Question about conjugating verb + たい
Double negation of an i-adjective
Is it possible to put two adverbs one after another?
Usage of わけにはいかない
Do you also say 「もしもし」 on Skype?
Do all the い-adjectives become adverbs when you add く to them?
Does 暗闇へ make sense?
The meaning of 気もない
A confusing line for me (picture)
Name for Spain in kanji 西班牙
What is the meaning of “ ヒキョーだ”? What would be a good english word/phrase to replace it?
Meaning of 俺はどこまで行っても俺だ
What is the reading of 0件？ れいけん or ゼロ件？Thanks!
Difference in meaning of 場合 with 辞書形 and た形
Counting Duration of Months
Strange use of 終わる
What is the significance of the ☆ symbol?
Understanding て＋助詞
How to denote particular kana sounds in Japanese?
Can anyone tell me what this means? [closed]
Is there any difference in meaning between 野外 and 屋外?
What is the meaning of とか in the sentence?
What does あなたでは mean in this sentence? [duplicate]
Meaning of 果たせることが出来たなら
Does this sound natural? or is there better sentence that this [closed]
Meaning of しかも and それで in Yes-No question
The many ways to request something from someone else
What are the guidelines of omitting particles?
Why would a light novel have furigana for common kanji?
Is there a good way to translate the Japanese comic book title “乱飛乱外” to English?
Why “ついてきてください” and not “付いてきてください”
のりまきみたいにくるまればふかふかふとんになるんだもん。
What is the meaning of this Japanese sentence?
When can を be replaced with に?
The meaning of 似つかわしくない
Does ～そう modify both verbs in a double-verb construction?
Connection between 〜い adjectives and 〜く verbs?
What does [で] mean in [前は花屋で]…?
Meaning of 両方じゃだめ
What is the meaning of 過ぎる in this sentence?
光の差さぬ暗い影 vaguely understanding this line
What is the function of the と particle in this sentence?
Why to use 思っていました instead of 思いました?
Is there an idiom equivalent to / similar to “gut feeling”?
How to say: I want to be good at what I choose to do [closed]
Meaning of 調整役 in the following sentence
Meaning of 何が悲しくて
Japanese don't learn kanji meaning only readings? Does it make sense for a kanji to have a key meaning to identify it?
Meaning of 「どどめ色」
Present progressive tense of 覚える
の replacing が in subordinate clauses
Better to say 床屋 or 散髪屋?
The usage of という in questions
ます Verb Stem + another verb grammar meaning?
80/20 rule expression (Pareto Principle)
Are Japanese stories usually written in past tense or present tense?
Differences in use between 水蒸気, 蒸気 and 湯気?
Usage of よう without に particle
What does ぐてっと mean?
How can I say “female soldier” in Japanese
What is the role of の in 「怒りのキーブレード」？Why is it translated as “the keyblade's rage” and not “the keyblade of rage”?
What does ちらっ mean?
What is それ in それどころ pointing at in this sentence?
What does 勝ったな mean?
What is the difference between 祖先 and 先祖?
What is the grammar behind もなければ、なければ?
っといても after a verb
Why is there dakuten on the “ん” in this image? (ん゙)
Question about ね particle
Words with varied 音読み｛おんよみ｝
What does 本当たりえる mean
「命令形 + と助詞」どんな意味？
Questions about a correction, nominalizing, and particles
Receiving allowance / allowing others to do something using させて+もらう／くれる constructions [closed]
Is there a meaning associated with upside-down kanji?
謝れとは言ってない　quoting someone's words or my own?
What does the little っ (tsu) signify when at the end of a word?
Can ば conditional form be interpreted as a conjunction? [duplicate]
Meaning of 迎えにやってくる
Meaning of 「何だ」in this sentence [duplicate]
How much space is considered standard between consecutive “「” and “『”s?
Does the meaning of the Kanji change based on its reading
What does カピカ mean?
Describing an adjective with “should”
Action of ではない on sentence part
Possible meanings for “気を巡らせる”
Is there a diffrence between saying “盗み聞き” and “盗み聞きとは?”
「しまう」 as standalone words in dialogue and description, in quotes
i-adjective modifying ある (eg 強くありたい)
Figurative meaning of 結果的に 「一直線で来られてよかった」?
How have writers in English spelled うん?
What is the meaning of “MiN” in the context of a japanese web novel which is using gaming terminology? [closed]
Can I use the potential form with the ～たい ending?
じゃor じゃあ for meaning “well then”
Is あの兵に plural or singular?
思い過ごせばいい - Actual meaning?
Use ございます out of fixed expression
What is the origin of word 勉強 meaning “to study/learn”?
ては in a series of て connected sentences [duplicate]
そ and も meaning in その中でも
Which is most critical? 警報 or 注意報?
Does 外公役 mean public servant?
What is the purpose of で in this sentence?
Purpose of に in 政治に興味がある
Meaning of 寝落ちしてた and differentiating 寝 as either sleep or lying down?
Meaning of つかみどころがない on a person
How do you say “recognized authority” as in “recognized authority in a field of study”?
Why is this 頼んでたら and not 頼んだら in this sentence?
What does 「アニメ」 mean in this context?
Elliptical usage of を
ありがとう pronounced with heibangata pitch pattern?
Difference between やめろい and やめろ
How to write “Redhead Woman”?
When is 終わる used as a transitive verb?
Help with the “ない” in “たまには自分を解放してあげないとね”
use 一触即発 to refer to someone's personality? someone who “easily gets upset”?
があったもん vs だったもん
Meaning of verb + つもりも + potential verb + 程
Meaning of あれで + noun+ だったらな
The correct way to ask if delivery to our home is available?
How would one translate “蝋燭はけっこう上のほうにある” into English?
Nuance of ひどい as cruel?
Aren't 「から」 and 「ので」 closer to the meaning of “because” rather than “so”?
Are 辞書形 + て and 「とらんで」 from some dialect?
Function of the sentence final particle こと in this sentence
What do you say for “junction” or “fork” in a path in terms of direction?
The meaning of 四五町ほど(隔たる)
Usage of とwhere it seems てshould be used [duplicate]
Is there a difference between 新年の抱負 and 年頭の誓い?
Why is there 'は' before 'あるく' in this sentence? [duplicate]
Meaning of 舌の根の乾かぬうち
How are 'nasalized vowels' pronounced?
Why can できている carry a judgemental, negative connotation?
Do you guys write the date in year/day/month format? [duplicate]
What is お in お元気ですか?
Past tense short な-adjective + ので
How do I connect these three seemingly irrelevant clauses of lyrics?
An analogous expression to “gem”
Meaning of がい in だろうがい
how to pronounce name in japanese
Imperative form + という方
てしょうがない/てしかた(が)ない, “You shouldn't”
Why are there so many words that mean the same? [closed]
「実父」's pronunciation
Differences between ひ弱い and か弱い
I need some help with んです/ので/ん
Usage of 全部束 and かなう
The meaning of 住んでる星が違う
Embedded questions without particle か
Meaning clarification about「扱う」and 「禁じ手」 in this sentence
Why is the radical of 午 listed as ⼗ and not ⼲?
Is there a difference between わけではない and わけではなく?
パドル -What does it actually mean?
Meaning and translation of カット割り and difference with 絵コンテ
Can “響く” have the meaning of “to come (home); to remain (with someone)”?
What is the right pronunciation of 「何にみえますか」
Criteria for reading 物{もつ} or 物{ぶつ}
Question about 「得為らざる」
verb てーform + もいいです　VS. verb + こと + ができます: whether equivalent or not
シュバババーン?　What is it?
「とまっている」 as figurative “To stay”, “To [figuratively] be in a place”?
Difference between いたします and させていただきます
Is a particle required after 何か？
What are simple “No” responses?
What does ここじゃ何だ means in this sentence?
Is 「short past + ろう」 like 「だろう」?
Dog Adoption Vocab
What does ゲヒゲヒ mean?
Grammar of なんで+verb in potential form+ようか
Is this sentence correct and natural sounding? [closed]
Understanding Xになったままで and/or まま in general
“applause”: What's the difference between 「喝采」 and 「拍手」?
Interpreting 流石に
interpreting 描き下ろしに描き下ろし
とまる / とめる and such pairs of verbs
What's the difference between 調整する and 整える?
How to use「足がすくんだ」
Wordplay - which is quite difficult for me because of the homophones, where is the joke?
Help parsing a sentence with two を
Is “不特定多数” slang for “date more than 1 person at the same time”?
What does the word 「ものかねえ」mean?
What tense of a verb should be used in the subordinate clause?
Usage of　に、とき, ときに
準備は丸一日した is there a particle missing?
それにしてもEven for or anyway?
Usage of むこう to describe sunrise
Would a native say 心底から申し上げる? What's a better way to say “speaking with genuine sincerity…”
What is the meaning of “迷い” in the phrase 夜の街迷いし穢れの乱歩
Use of です after plain form verb conjugation
What I'm getting wrong on this sentence? あそこに立っているのが、あなたのみらいの子どもです
How to say “hard working person” in japanese
How to translate “ghosting” (the dating/social term)
行く 帰る 来る + time expression - how it works
Why is kiru represented as kiri in おじいさん が 山 へ 木 を きり に いけば
ファーストネーム vs. 名/名前 for first name?
私の人格もよく知らずにガンガン言う人は、ろくなもんじゃないと思って。
I-adjective in く form modifies a noun/adverb
Another meaning of 回{かい}転{てん} in phrase 回{かい}転{てん}寿{ず}司{し}チェーン
How to say 2000 people attend X High School
Does 逆さまにする ever mean rotation on the Y-axis? a twist?
を好き instead of が好き
How is 懐く read in this case?
What does 付き合わされる身になって mean?
What does 入れこみ mean here?
Applying the same adjective to multiple nouns
How to say “turn around!” in Japanese?
Is it appropriate to say おじゃまします when entering one's own room?
Meaning of “仕掛ける機会”
best phrase choice for a derogatory reference to the “young generation”?
A question about 依り代
Difference between 帰りました and 帰っていきました?
Difference between 店{みせ} and 店{てん}舗{ぽ}
Meaning of かっぱ寿司では
Differences between ways to express obligation?
How did 達 (~tachi) come to mean `pluralize` something?
Question about 「並の上」
Logic behind grammar patterns
Pitch accent pattern for verb stem + な
'I'm happy/sorry/grateful that…" (thanks for…/happy to hear that…)
Pitch accent for ないで and なくて
“に”の連続使用は避けるべきでしょうか？
~を出る vs. ~から出る: Grammar rule not consistent
difference between 呼ぶ and 言う:
Parsing and meaning of まいとしているふう
Meaning of 譲る in 譲りきれない思い出
What does おくびにも出さず in this sentence?
エラーにする vs. エラーをする
「和む」is a common word?
が vs. を in this example
How to write a bulleted list in Japanese
What does the word 「ちゃらくさい」mean?
Two は in a sentence
Why 「と」 in 「行為と受け取り」? (And 「洞察」)
what does 素 mean in 素数?
What is the etymology of the phrase 隴を得て蜀を望む?
Double が particles
What does 「選挙を追った」 mean here?
Are hiragana letters written with their small nuances?
How to say “the options go from A to B passing through C”?
Why are these adverbs being used?
Meaning and use of またと
Meaning of 見て取れぬでもない and 揃って
Audio translation help!
Obscure verb forms?
Multiple verbs in one sentence using ことがある
Confusion on imperative forms?
Is there any difference between 旅行者 and 旅人?
Te form for consecutive verbs
Can 決めてない mean “crazy”?
Is the yasumi in oyasuminasai the same as yasumi (day off / break)?
Do the Japanese read Classical Chinese poems in Japanese or in on-readings?
What's the meaning of ともすると and かとも in this sentence?
What do I actually call familiar or friendly language?
Answer to この[質問]{しつもん}、[子供]{こども}さえしってるよ。
What is the meaning of “ので” and “会う” here?
Using について with しつもんする
The origin of the kanji 買
The origin of the kanji 読
What are「熄み」's etymology and meaning
appropriate sarcastic “almost died”
強がる usage and meaning
Email signature detection - what are some common phrases to sign off emails? [closed]
Did the Japanese have a concept of “Asia” apart from the Eurocentric definition?
Whats the name of this izakaya? [closed]
Is 人孔 from English?
Do native speakers learn consonant and vowel length easily, or is it difficult?
Help identifying blurry kanji [closed]
grammar of 前の誕生日プレゼントにもらった彼女の絵
What is this Kanji? I can’t find it anywhere?
What is the difference between 技能 and 技術 in terms of 業務内容
“予備あるしさ” What does this phrase mean? I was reading the manga and I didn't understand [closed]
Figuring out what 「言わないまでも」means in this sentence
Why is に used in these sentences?
Do native speakers ever create/improvise onomatopoeia?
Loaned female first names
What would 箆深い (のぶかい) mean?
What is the difference between 刹那主義 and 快楽主義?
How does this passive sentence work?
Difference between conjunctive forms: ～ます stem and ～て form
Is 年月 (months and years) read 【としつき】or【ねんげつ】and is there a difference?
Trouble understanding one specific lyric in a song
で in 前回で in this sentence
Sentence ending でな
Does 々 have a kanji grade level?
What are the most and least common kana in Japanese people's last name?
田 pronounced as “た” or “だ” in people's surname?
Can I omit the second noun in どのかばんが森さんのかばんですか？
Question about the use of 察す
Historical naming conventions of Japanese first names? Modern interpretation of first names?
思いついた plural or singular?
How do I say “people like me”
Nuances of「すらさえも」?
Construction behind 「やり」in this sentence
How to describe a strong smell of smoke
Meaning of "煩悩は使えば使うほど増えていく”
Meaning and origin of 「退がる」
Question about ほど in this sentence
Could anyone explain this 置く置かない to me please
鋭い牙が meaning in human nature
A little help with the usage of 「……わけだよ」
What does …て…て mean?
Meaning of だとでもいうかの
What is the point of 一名 in this sentence?
What does 耳 mean in these contexts?
What is this て-form at the end of a sentence: 「まったく可愛くねー起こし方しやがって！」
A little help with a sentence and also the meaning of だと
What is the difference between ばよかったです and べき?
Why is デレる ichidan? (Etymology of デレる and デレデレ)
Why not use 波長が合う
Joint etymology of -san/-chan? [duplicate]
What does どおし mean in this song?
What does 普段からmean in this sentence?
How can this sentence be understood?
Nominalizing verb with い-ending vs ーの
Question about Kana writing
What is 上がり refering to in this sentence?
とまで parsing and usage
Omitting the particle? 「時の経つのも忘れさせる」
A question about ~はしない
Meaning of いやしません [duplicate]
What does 'し' mean in these scenarios
Correct translation for application user roles
What does ゴン part in イノゴン mean?
Can なになに be used to fill in an unknown word in an example? i.e. なになにともうします。
Trying to create a name but something is strange
Does わけ as in わけではない and わけがない genuinely mean “reason” or actually means "translation/interpretation?
夕立: why 立 if the word means “a sudden evening shower/rain”?
How to parse the following から and is the もとで a noun?
“One step behind” or “one move too late”
Why was on'yomi (音読み) created?
How to use お[構]{かま}いなく？
Can you tell me the difference between に似る and と似る?
Differences Between 興味深い & 面白い?
What's the difference between 繁盛 and 隆盛?
“No, your taste is (not) good”
Japanese idiom for “don’t get your meat where you get your bread”?
In kanji 外, why is タ used instead of ソ? [closed]
The grammar/syntax of 前進あるのみ
Diminutives in Japanese
一度やると言った◯◯、何があってもやりますよ。What should be included in 〇〇?
Habitual aspect
屁の一つをひるのも惜しがるような様子だった
いけません in the short form
How is this sentence/saying structured?
What is the etymology of パイセン?
Use of ございます to describe existence
What is AはBにCに?
昨夜は風が強かった〇〇、庭の木の葉が全部落ちている。What should be included in 〇〇?
Nuances and context of linking without 〜て / dropped 「て」in linked constructions
Does ません sometimes not negate?
Understanding めちゃくちゃ and 内容 in this sentence
What does なくた mean in 理解されなくたっていい?
珍 vs 珍しい (na-adjective and i-adjective)
How to say “Why I started studying Japanese”
風邪: reading and writing
What are the differences between うちに、間に、同時に, ながら & ついでに
Romaji and Hiragana seem to disagree [closed]
Does the negative ずに form have a connective function like the te form does?
Japanese Name of the て-form without the て
Can a verb be modified too many times?
ようと followed by a noun
Can you say“ 何が貴方のお名前はですか”？Or does 何 have to come before です？
Interpretation of にはな in this sentence
Who is performing these actions
Translation of beady-eyed
Grammar explanation for ~よし
How to understand 「どこへ振り下ろす」
される and られる confusing meaning
Use of も particle when stating what someone said
Alternative reading of 額
How to translate わからない in the following sentence
Connotations and use of 日本晴(れ)
How to use じゃ in grammar?
The usage of が particle in linking nouns
Couple of questions about a passage
Casual way to say: ''See you tomorrow at (some time)''
Meaning of ~を~に(して) / ~を~として / ~を~にする / ~を~とする / ~を~にした / ~を~とした
What is the meaning of “と” here?
Difference between “doko desu ka” and “doko ga”
how much use of カタカナis good or bad in Japanese?
Mysterious も in この郊外も地下鉄が来て不便ではなくなった
Disambiguation of 大抵
Couple of translation questions
Difference between 「～てからでないと」and 「～ないことには」
What does 「夢{ゆめ}に触{ふ}れる」 mean?
The construction をしてほしいものじゃ
Is my transcription of the handwritten kanji correct? [closed]
Is 忍者/忍び also used for women?
Differences between なり and 〜たとたん
Can someone help me identify the handwritten kanji? [closed]
Do all な-adjectives come from Chinese?
Metaphorical meaning of ゴミの分別
Syntactic Properties of “Bare Numerals”: 「一」in「其の一」
〜く＋あります inflections?
Meaning of ひらっと
What does the に in でしょうに mean?
Origin of 〜かった?
Why is the topic marker often used in negative statements (ではない, ～とは思わない)?
What is the meaning of this な?
What is the meaning of 奥手 here?
Offensive/negative meaning of 雑草
What is the difference between these 2 expressions?
Which verb can I use with the word “散文”?
Help with a lyric from Psycho Pass Ending
Why is being indirect more polite than being direct in Japanese?
What’s the difference between “書けるか” and “書けますか“?
Meaning of particle and word in provided sentence
その without a following noun?
Why is が not being used in this sentence?
てっきり「知らん」ってほっておくものとばかり… I can't understand the meaning of ばかり here [duplicate]
〜ていない vs 〜ないでいる
What is the meaning of 選任 in the following sentence?
What is the most casual way to ask ''What do you reckon ?'' in Japanese?
プレゼント買う心配がありません without particles
“お調べいただいた上、” vs. “お調べいただき、…”
Confirm if someone wants to do something
What is the meaning of のだと in this context?
What is the meaning of に対して in this sentence ？
What does 私はお願いしたいんですけど mean in this context?
Use of ママ as suffix to a name?
What is the meaning or usage of the に at the end of the following sentence?
How to use adjectives to qualify nouns in between the の particle?
The exquisite depths of 和菓子's mind
What does “バッチい手” mean?
What does “ワルよのぉ” mean?
“服を汚した”　vs　“服を汚くした”
What is the meaning of 出るべきところ here?
Translation of the “Immortal Words” from the “Stormlight Archive”
What is the meaning of うなじや in the following passage?
「報告書」と「日報」の違いは何？
What is the meaning/usage of に in the following sentence?
What is the function of の in 「私があんた連れ出したのなんでだと思う？」
What's a good onomatopoeia for “suddenly realizing, in a flash of genius”?
Why is the sentence, “毎日、AからＢに通います。” incorrect?
Is it necessary to repeat に in the following sentence?
What is the sentence structure in Japanese and how do you know the correct order?
How to message or mail to teacher for making a appointment? [closed]
What is the difference between 北 and 北部 [duplicate]
Help with でも functions
What is the difference between 初めは　and 初めに？
〜ほうを at the end of a sentence
I can't quite parse this sentence about not remembering something
が vs は for intransitive verbs
What is the purpose of the が particle in this sentence?
Is there a rule for deciding if we should write こんばんは or 今晩は?
Can object in a compound sentence be ommited in order to avoid repetition?
How to ask if a connection/relationship exists between two things
Why is `お一人様の際は、こちらのテーブルをお使いいただけます` wrong?
Opposite of 座ります [closed]
Meaning and etymology of phrase or interjection いよっしゃあ?
Comparison of two Japanese Bible translations of Genesis 1:1
Meaning of 万々が一
Different stroke order in two similar kanji 戚 and 歴
What is the meaning of kai/かい? [duplicate]
Differences between 若者 and 若手
Does the sentence 『ボブは魚は好きだ』 make sense？
Meaning of のもののこと
Earliest Examples of Literature Written with Katakana and Hiragana Online
Adopting a Japanese Name
How can I say “even today” or “even now”?
Meaning for 昔から大好きな親戚の姉さん
about the translation of this sentence
What is the meaning of 何をどう?
Kanji identification (low res)
What is the translation of this sentence?
The redundance of 経緯
に usage in 「定めに抗う…」
How was the Pacific Ocean named in Japan before Magellan?
The meaning of 飲み友か或いはもっとより良い関係を結べるか
How do you thank somebody for doing two things in Keigo?
「生かんとする」 in a relative clause
Why is the なら conditional being used here?
Last Minute + Studying/Questions etc
pronunciation of 拗音
“On that note” in Japanese?
Who is the object and subject in this passive sentence?
里でもコイツに言う事を聞かせられるヤツ grammar
Compound word ending with an adjective stem (形容詞語幹) and used as a noun or a na-adjective
How do I remember a Kanji with more than two readings and when to use them [duplicate]
What is the etymology of 迷信?
Does わかる carry more implication of assent or agreement than the English equivalents?
Does 日本茶 ''mean'' green tea?
If it's okay to remove the punctuation in a modern text format of Kojiki (古事記)
Should I include my step-siblings as 兄弟?
Help understanding this sentence about why some shrines remove their bells at busy times e.g. 正月
Does the on'yomi of 輪 (リン) have any relation to the English “ring”, or is it a coincidence?
how can I say ''I post about Japanese history, mythology and culture'' properly?
What is the difference between 描【か】く and 描【えが】く?
How does がんだとわかった work in this sentence?
What is mostly used on signs in Tokyo: Katakana, Hiragana or Kanji?
Why is 島 used in the name of some cities?
transitive vs intransitive verbs in relative clauses
「だね」「だよね」と「のだね」「のだよね」の違い
Is 〜であるものか construction allowable?
The translation of 叩きつけてきた
Does “雑用” really describe ”俺” here in this context?
Meaning of “きっちり” here?
What is the difference between ながら and のに for expressing “despite”/“although”?
Interpretation of 「ミスターハスラー楽屋から火だすな」 in a song
What is the difference between しました and した
分{わ}かる vs. 分{わ}かっている
くせに when the subject is the first person?
The French language, furansugo vs futsugo
Help with kanji [closed]
In the sentence 雑誌のほうは彼に渡してくれ, what does のほう mean?
７色 vs 七色 for rainbow (7 colors vs 7 prismatic colors)
Special meaning of 洋彫り vs (入れ墨 and タトゥー)?
Why is はじめ written with the kanji 初 as opposed to 始 to convey “the beginning”?
Meaning of “Quantity下一桁２”
What does “味合わないと” mean?
Confusion about time scope of 日をもって
Contrastive は vs. が
How may I express concern without asking if the person is 'OK' but wanting them to be 'OK'?
Translation of ないもの
what does と mean here
Native Japanese vocabulary, pure Wago/Yamato Kotoba
たい form + としている
Meaning of なろうとなんだろうと
Please illustrate the differences between 数 and 量. Also 番号？
Meaning of これでもかという forms
What does “ガッツンガッツン” mean?
Why do textbooks and other sources pretend special katakana don't exist?
Honorifics in Japan
さま after a verb
“I don't mind paying/watching/going”
Translation of 半ば
Does this sentence make sense “タバコとっても大嫌いよ、タバコの香り特にな” [closed]
Use of 自分 in terms of dialect, formality, and gender
interpretting 人となりのわかるような事
Translating for the phrase ”The most popular game in the West, now available in Japan!"
Which verb means “to pet <an animal>”?
Translation of 見れば
Does the Japanese expression ''peko peko'' come from the English word ''peckish''?
Translation dialogue
Can't understand the のための場所以上にpart
I don't understand this correction to my sentence. Please explain!
Does 語るでもなくて mean “Not worth speaking”?
What is the meaning of ハードルガンガン?
What are some examples of three-mora atamadaka verbs besides 帰る?
The translation of そんな謙遜ともとれる
A concrete example of problematic disambiguation (part 1)
湿度 as “humidity” in general
nanimo vs nandemo (also daredemo/daremo) 誰でも　誰も　何でも　何も
Is “I can eat a glass” a good translation of “私はガラスを食べられます”?
I am having some trouble understanding the beginning of a story
Interpretting 別に…とは無関係なところで
Can “genki desu ka” also mean “Am I well?”
The meaning of 腹にマガジン巻く
What does 調子乗 mean? [duplicate]
Is 私 in 私が我慢ならず object or subject?
Uncertainty of 自分 is is here
What is the reading of 台北(タイペイ)?
Meaning and parsing of 伸びるままにまかせている
するようにしてください vs. してください
The use of や…など　in news
Meaning of やっぱり in this context?
How do you say “I think X is Y”
都合の悪いところ + 見て判断したそう + punctuation of this sentence
What does たがった mean in this sentence?
“辶” or “⻍”, the writing of [之繞]{しん・にょう} [duplicate]
What's the difference between 「か嫌いだとか」 and 「か嫌いだったり」
Is the ''yoi'' meaning ''ready'' when doing karate the same as the ''yoi'' which means nice/good?
question about sentence structure
寄らば from 寄らば大樹の陰
Grammar of AはBにCとなる
Sharp vs rounded (tomed) vertical stroke in kanjis
Is that sound or words?
The writing of “襖”
Are 世界の一番 and 世界で一番 both correct?
What's the meaning of ないでくれないかなあ？
Is Xがないとだめ “must have X”? And sentence-ending かね
How do you ask someone to '' please yobisute ''?
カス in the context of 俺はやる lyrics by Wanyudo
Verb ending in -ん with positive meaning?
Understanding censorship in the game “Vivid Army”
What is this usage of と at the end of a sentence in this song? And in general?
How to know whether a word is borrowed from foreign languages?
Meaning of 早口 - fast talker
「から」 and the potential form in 「～ことから～言える」
能力や装飾を施している meaning in this context,
Confusion between 誰でも and 誰か
Can a conbini be referred to as a benriya when translating the term literally?
Can ''onamae'' be used in the middle of a sentence?
What exactly is this のでは?
Further “で as 動作を行うときの様態 vs で as だ” clarifications
Uses of に思う in this statement
Is 写真 an onomatopoeia?
そう “seem” used for hearing
Should I use 無料 (muryou) or 只 (tada) for a free chatsite?
相手には when speaking of “two third persons”
っ(sokuon) usage
が function in this sentence?
「～について説明する」と「～を説明する」は　どう違いますか？
What is the にはな used for in the following sentence?
石が足を取られて grammar
What are the words for round eye and oriental eye shapes?
Function of って in this sentence
Verb+Noun Combination // なる to “describe landscapes”
Noun + に続いて + Verb phrase
「に夢見る」 and translating 「こういうのドライ」
Meaning of ドリンクを持って行った。
鶏肉【とりにく】? 鶏肉【けいにく】? 鶏肉【ちょうにく】? チキン? for chicken meat
Choosing correct response to 何か質問はありませんか？ (Nanika shitsumon wa arimasenka?)
What is the function of て-form in this sentence?
だけ between two verbs / second verb performing an action on だけ construction
出かけることにしました - What is the meaning of this?
What's the difference between 身寄り, 親類 and 親戚?
What is the origin of っこない?
the combination of writing kanji and hiragana: how to choose? [duplicate]
What does "っこしよ？” mean in a kyoto accent?
Translating “さつ… 詐欺だーツ” [closed]
when to use がつ or げつ readings for 月？
加藤楸邨の俳句の解釈とその説明
What is the etymology of とある?
Different meanings of こわい
Please help to translate phrase “the flying octopus” correctly [closed]
Using 「に」, 「にとって」 and 「に対して」 with adjectives
Why does 「お帰りなさい」 mean “welcome home”?
Is V2 + ころ / ごろ a pattern or not
'Who got it right?' '3 people got it right'
What is the difference between the terms 課長 and 小頭?
Why is こんばんみ used as a response to こんばんは？
五段動詞特異的なイ音便について
What is the difference between ~のがすきです & ~がすきです?
Why is 羨ましい used here instead of a noun like 嫉妬?
What terms are used for a non-native speaker of Japanese?
How can I say “to put on/to play some music”?
Meaning of という手も
How to say animal feed in Japanese? Is there a particular verb for eating when the subject is an animal?
Meaning of 初デートの記念というやつです
DIfferences between 限定 and 制限
What's the difference between ないことはない and ないこともない？ [duplicate]
「知るか」 and variant phrases
Noun or adjectives starting with 不 [closed]
Say I want to speak with someone
What does “収まり悪い” mean?
使用して and 使って difference
Usage of さん when talking about famous people
Translation of: 美しいと思ってしまったのだ
What is the counter for kanji characters?
what does と and other kanjis stand for in this sentence?
Expressing action of taking off
オレンジ色のズボンを履きます　vs オレンジ色ズボンを履きます
Partial ひらがな sentences (why ことし, きのう, きょう, あす?)
Kanjied 出した vs kananed だした in -dasu/dashta pattern
Yotsubato! What does いてー mean?
Full っている vs shorter ってる: slang or official tool
Meaning of 初デートの記念というやつです
Potential verbs with and without ようになる
What are the names for the sets of kanji taught in secondary schools?
Are 近畿【きんき】 and 関西【かんさい】 two nouns for the same concept and same region or there is an actual difference?
How to say “I am going” and boundaries of てくる
かなり-[noun が]-[adj] vs [noun が]-かなり-[adj]
NO adjectives list or complete explanation
What does すきすき mean here?
What does it mean についちゃ in this text? [duplicate]
Help with showing lack of a 'because' construct in translating the bolded sentence?
Why is beatboxing called 「ヒューマンビートボックス」?
How do I count pieces of Halloween candy of different shapes?
Understanding this incomplete sentence
Does といったところ translate to “approximately” or “at most” in this sentence?
What does “なかなか” mean here?
What does “綺麗” mean in this sentence?
The usage of あげく
Specific use of してまで
What does 仕入れて来る mean here?
なにかなのだろう parsing and meaning
Does the kanji term Mitsukoshi 三越 have a meaning when the 2 terms are combined?
Difference between 完成させる and 完成する (transitive usage only)
What is the purpose of the redundant “いい人” in this example sentence
Are Japanese counters the same when viewing items online?
Can I use both 気温 and 温度 when asking for the weather temperature?
Meaning of 「制止に入る」
Meaning of “纏わり” in this sentence?
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
Meaning of とうとうりん
Meaning of どこでなく
The translation of 重ねていた
「～だら」という一部遠州弁の使い方
は and　が　function
What is the right translation and saying for ”Paper World”
Sentence-ending という
Is this an error…?
Could someone please explain the usage of なる here? [duplicate]
What is the reading of 弓形?
grammar of アンタに用事がある
~くて on a verb? How do you indicate desire?
Meaning of ここまでのことをやったんです
いて use as a reason or something else
What term would be used for words that are borrowed from Japanese and used in other languages?
Adding -い at the end of questions [duplicate]
Clarification on 彼のほかに私たち皆が行った
Is 均等 a noun or adjective?
What does ぎゃんかわ女子 mean?
事に感ず and Shigin vocabulary
気付けば/気がつけば and ば form
what does 線 mean here?
What's up with the weird word order in 乞うご期待?
How to write Hanief (my name) in Japanese?
What is the difference between 体面 and 面目？
Is there an omitted particle between the いい and 歳 in the following sentence?
How to interpret this joke: 釣られたからって引きこもってやんのテラワロスwww
に vs. を in “to pass a test”
What does “Denzen/Zenzen haitenai dame” mean on a telephone message recording?
Is 何それ a rude phrase?
Understanding and grammar meaning behind “やったことないしなー”
What does “絶っている” mean?
そのものだ how is it translated?
Why is the topic marker often used in negative statements (ではない, ～とは思わない)?
Is this ~んだ form an explanation?
Differences between 場所 and どこの場所
Particle Usages [closed]
は vs が in やすい-pattern
What is the difference between 山道【さんどう】 and 山道【やまみち】?
Is there an etymological connection between 奇数 in Japanese and “odd number” in English?
Nominal connectors in embedded sentences: 名詞・形容動詞 ＋「である」「だという」「な」等 (+ こと) の使い分けについて
What does 測る mean here?
Difference between using て form and dictionary form when requesting/instructing
Why is it more suitable to use 「V辞書形 」 than 「N+の」 right before 「代わりに」 in the following sentence?
i-AdjectiveのNoun possible in special cases?
What does “それに意味を持たせるか” mean?
Who “acts out” the verb here?
Which is more polite, ではまた or じゃまた?
Need help reading hand-written character from comic
Are 「ないで」(when used adverbially) and 「ずに」 absolutely interchangeable?
What is the meaning of these Kanji? [closed]
The translation for 思い切った
What does かとか mean in this sentence?
Did labialized consonants remain in Ryūkyūan?
Different ways to ask help from strangers
What is the suitable phrase/word to say “break time”
Difference between 「移行」and 「移動」
Meaning of 合わせる本命の拳 in the following context
Information about っちょ noun suffix
Need help with economics headline that contains 還元
直前に adverb or not
What is the Japanese equivalent of 'you're in my heart'?
~たる form of a verb [duplicate]
Different words for bookshop
近所に as an adverb
What is the difference between 編修 and 編集?
What is the meaning of いじります in Information Technology?
Need help with the famous 11 second intercom audio from Mega Man Legends 2
に in 両親に行ったように反乱軍に跪いてみせた
How do you say “oneirism” in Japanese?
aru Kanji confusion
How best to respond to 「ご無沙汰しています」
What is the word for “man cave”?
What is the difference between 売女 vs 街娼?
ここ10年でずいぶん's meaning
麦酒 (ばくしゅ) for “beer”
Word choice between 並々ならぬ and 並外れた
usage of は and の as posesssives
Meaning of 小せェもんに縛られてる
～め ending, apparently not imperative?
Confused in choosing 早い versus 速い
What does こんな mean in the following sentence?
Verb ending in -ん with positive meaning?
What is そんでもって?
Can 参加 be used to invite someone to a chat?
Can adverbs modify adjectives?
Difference between 僕等 and 僕ら?
What is the difference between 動画 and 映画？
Don't understand 歌うめぇ meaning [duplicate]
What is the difference between 調子【ちょうし】 (choushi) and 具合【ぐあい】 (guai)?
Why カザフスタン for Kazakhstan?
What's my name in Japanese - Sensei can't pronounce it
What is the correct question 何だろう or 何だろうか
に in コントロールに苦しまなくなった
Please help with a headline for today's news article about consumption tax
Meaning of らしたのじゃありません?
What is the etymology behind 彼氏(彼) and 彼女 meaning boyfriend/girlfriend?
Does 病 refer to a short or long term illness?
Help with 人物{じんぶつ}像{ぞう}の特定{とくてい}. What does it mean?
Is there a difference between a カーニバル and an お祭り?
Could you please explain the use of passive voice in the following sentences?
Meaning of そうでもない
お仕事に学校頑張って meaning
賭博師と遊び人の違いはなんですか？
What does “自前” mean in “自前エプロン”?
What do ギリギリすぎる and 設定 mean in this sentence?
Help understanding だからこそ、という場合もある
Interpreting 下手に俺を残して手柄を奪われても困ると判断した in this context
反動で大きな反作用を招いて and how ぐらい is relevant in this context
meaning of たりしてくれる
What is the meaning of this passage?
What is しきれてない in 理解しきれてない?
What are the moistened wrapped towelettes called in restaurants?
What is the Japanese word for a track beaten in the woods? “A beast road”?
How to use ~のか accurately? 「体調が悪いのか、顔色があまり良くない。」
What is the Japanese verb for vaping?
How did 象【しょう】 ( ≈かたち、 すがた、ようす) and 象【ぞう】 (どうぶつ) get to be written with the same kanji?
Is 「食品」 a shorter synonym of「食料品」or there is a difference in meaning between both words?
What is the difference between 「変更」 and 「変化」?
performers of actions in 自らも同行すると言い出して聞かず
How to differentiate between 異常 and 異状 in speech？
Why is テ pronounced as “ti” in パーティ?
Do genitive numerical phrases block the plural?
JLPT N1 practice question: Usage of この辺で
What is the の particle doing in this sentence when used after まで?
interpreting ～とどちらが上というものでもなく
What does どうしてこのサイトに来てるのかな？
Meaning of 小せェサル in the following sentence
Would the same counter be used to order a slice of pizza and a whole one?
Meaning of と in this sentence [duplicate]
What is the difference between 箸【はし】 and 割【わ】り箸【ばし】?
Pitch Accent for Honorifics
添付される for physical objects. Does it mean “included with” or “attached to”?
二つ下のいとこ instead of はとこ
What is the term for the English idiom of “with high stakes”?
What does やられてる mean in this sentence?
Word order in 犬のホワイトチョコレート
諦観{ていかん}が迷{まよ}いを殺{そ}いでくれてたんだ meaning
Help needed breaking down で + なんだっていう in this sentence
What is the difference between 「何を…ましょうか」, 「何を…ますか」 and 「何を…ませんか」?
Way of the bicycle
レポートを書かなければなりません。 [duplicate]
What Japanese term would be used to describe the image that Japanese see when they look at the moon? [closed]
Particle の and hierarchy of info
The suffix くん with a girl's name
What is the relationship between 友だち, 恋人, and 仲良し in this dialog?
ください without て form and auxiliary verbs
What's the usage of で in this sentence: 日本はユーラシア大陸の東にある島国で国の70%は山です。
What is the middle character in Todd (Katakana) [duplicate]
Is this ね like ない? [duplicate]
Does ようやく mean “gradually”?
Do the terms 紅葉{こうよう} and 紅葉{もみじ} mean the same thing?
What is the difference between these sentences?
Is the sentence “何でも忘れた” correct?
What are the meaning and the usage of 体 【てい】?
Formation of word “何となく”
How would a native speaker correct themselves when they misspeak?
What is それ doing in this sentence
What is なく doing in the following sentence?
What is よって doing in the following sentence?
Can さくじつ and きのう be used the same way?
How to say monologue?
What is the meaning of 上げて落としたみて?
what is に's role in this sentence?
Passive ambiguity in this passage (「あなたに向けられる視線」・「殿下が判断された」)
Why is the term for can as in ''aluminum can" written in kanji?
What term is used to mean the game of American football?
Is there an equivalent phrase for “(enjoyed it) as much as we did”?
謙譲語 (Kenjougo) Beginner question
Explanation of 申し訳ございません
がる passive form
Meaning of もったいぶらず in the following sentence
Difference between 虫取り and 虫取りをする?
What do the parts of じゃんけんぽん mean?
What is the difference between さしあげる and あげる?
Difference between 絶滅, 消滅 and 滅ぶ
Is として in this sentence adverbial?
How to create adjectives in Japanese?
Is there kanji(s) to mean “from court” or “court-related”?
Which one is the correct usage for “迎えにいく”
Comparing ということだ and そうだ
What does “イタズラ書きだらけの壁にひとつの携帯番号.” mean?
What is the function of と in this sentence?
Why is 探そう not 探しそう?
What is the meaning of 「ぞんぞん」?
Are groups of kanji classified as on or kun'yomi overall or individually?
What is the difference between 傲慢、 横柄、 威張る、高慢、高ぶる?
What is the term for “Past Tense Negative Form” in Japanese?
What does “切ったのは俺?” mean in this context?
What's the meaning of か and も in this sentence?
Is は a particle in こんにちは and こんばんは? [duplicate]
Difference between NはNが多い and NounにNが多い
Why does “arimasen” mean “there's no hope”?
Difference between 合意、納得、相互理解？
To find / to look for / to detect
Is it ungrammatical to say Nがなく instead of Nなく when it means “without N”?
What is the proper way to address the Emperor in person？
How is the と particle working in 「意外と早かったね」?
Japanese N1 practice questions help
How can [わかんないとこがあった？ 私 にわかるとこなら 教 えるけど？] be translated?
で usage in this sentence
What does 待ってるから mean?
Is a 模合 considered to be a type of クラブ ？
Is ためか the same as ために?
What is the difference between 以外と、案外 and 割と
Is たらと some form of conditional?
Do the Japanese speak with On and Kun in daily conversation?
「所定」と「固定」の違いは何でしょうか？
What is the meaning of している in this sentence?
How can I differentiate if a word is (either fully or preferentially) used for spoken or written language?
Why is the particle と being used in the following sentences?
What does 1500万0000円 mean on a price display?
Which clause is the だけ in 身の危険が迫った時にだけ発現する能力だから attached to?
Can I use the title san if I refer to myself as an ojisan?
I think できる in this sentence here means “begin to exist”, am I correct?
What does 幸せになれると信じています mean? [closed]
How do you differentiate saying vague words in Japanese that have multiple meanings? E.g. tokei, koshi
Do na-adjectives have an attributive negative form?
Translation of my name
Difference between ~によって and ~を通じて (through, by means of)
/h/ sound changing in some Japanese counters
な vs の classes of nouns
Do any other widely used romaji based acronyms besides KK and NHK translate directly into Japanese words?
Could you please help me understand this sentence from NHK News?
what doesかどうかという mean in this sentence?
How to distinguish between different meanings of 'うま味'?
How would I say “This place is Heaven on Earth”?
How do you express that you have a twin sister? [duplicate]
What does 鴨が葱を背負って来る mean?
ものを and conditional
What is the difference between 「女性一人」 and 「一人の女性」?
Making sense of why 乙嫁語り is translated as “A Bride's Story”
Meaning of 作った人たち
What is the term for Japanese Language Stack Exchange in Japanese?
Why is there a が in 深淵に臨むが如し?
What does “引いた” mean?
Whats the difference between yama and san in the title of a mountain?
What is the meaning of 「一人」in the following sentence?
Does "朝か晩に” as an expression exist?
Which reading does Google Translate use for kanji words?
Should I use 正解 or 当たり to mean correct in a testing situation?
What does “流れるように” mean?
What does “やる事ブレない” mean?
How is this sentence “working” after として?
~てからでなければ vs ～なければ
What is the meaning of 「ほう」in the following sentence?
Need help with translating a sentence
What does 「ような 」mean in the following sentence?
Can you help me understand this sentence please?
「その＋名詞」ｖｓ「この＋名詞」
Usage of -shi after a name
How to say “In Japan, I want to …”?
Reading of 大: だい or たい?
Does あとな時間 mean 'plus some more hours'?
Explaining “向けてじゃないよ”
に vs. が in the ~てほしい construction
What is the conjugation in the word 「起たんか」and what does it mean?
Pronunciation of [ 男爵 / だんしゃく ]
What is the difference between を　vs　の in 何を勉強します　and　何の勉強します?
Is “屁理屈” redundant in this sentence?
ならでは (uniquely applying to, special to)
What is a proper response to こちらこそ?
What does つけ in “うそつけ” mean? [duplicate]
What’s なく after a verb for?
〜を限りに/で (Full range of meanings)
Are words with the combinations of ia io and ea eo pronounced the same as iya iyo and eya eyo
What does おけない mean in the following sentence?
What is the meaning of 置いてっちゃいますよ?
Is There A Japanese Word ( preferably a single Kanji ) For Owner of Black Stallion?
Why do Latin letters have English pronunciations in Japanese?
Understanding of をだけを
だけ + two questions
What is the difference between お風呂 and 銭湯?
Couldn't “ni” particle be used in this example?
How would a Japanese woman hyphenate her last name?
When is 前 read さき?
What are the rules of using 系　式　型 for kinds of things and methods
What does “先が気になる” mean?
What does 何分くらい右往左往していた？ mean?
Meaning of song title まるつけ from the anime Given
What's the connection between a spoon (匕) and the old age (⺹)? (Kanji: 老)
Can someone explain to me how “としまして” is formed?
Why is the term 者 used in some job titles and not others?
What does “観終わる” mean here?
What does “何か他” mean?
Understanding ~きて in おいてきて
Which is the more common reading of 仏陀 - ぶつだ or ブッダ?
Meaning of “くらいいる”?
What is the meaning of でも 私 あなたのそういうところ すきよ?
Potential forms of verbs that have gained a spontaneous meaning (e.g., 泣ける)
What is the difference between 「運転手【うんてんしゅ】」 and 「車掌【しゃしょう】」?
What is the difference between 「名前【なまえ】」 and 「名称【めいしょう】」？
What is the meaning of 山は越えたよ?
「ないことはない」 Example sentence
Is there a term used for a new kanji that replaces an outdated one?
Why is に used with this verb?
What does 「花に育てる編集」 mean?
What does 「ひざっこぞうをたたいてみるよ」 mean?
私にしたから in きっとあんな事を私にしたから
占める and particles
the meaning of 'meguri'
Japanese equivalent for “get to do something”?
What is the word(s) for fast food?
What does 見受ける mean?
Do Kanji have consistency in pronunciation like Chinese HanZi? [duplicate]
Meaning of それと in this sentence [duplicate]
What does ひとり残らず　たたき潰す それが俺の覚悟だ mean? [closed]
what is その効力 in this context?
When does a suru-noun require し in front of a purposive-に?
What are the various 'unuttered' phrases or sentences that Japanese omit in everyday conversation and/or narration?
What is the meaning of ケタ外れ in this situation..?
やる and あげる when used with て-form of verb [duplicate]
Can「病気【びょうき】」be used as a 形容動詞【けいようどうし】 (na-adjective)?
What does this Kanji mean in this historical book?
How to say “too quickly”, “too recklessly” etc
Validity of て-form of i-adjectives + も [duplicate]
Why is みんな sometimes used with a particle and without?
Question regarding ～をして～言わしめる
Using ていく to express doing something deeply/longer/strongly and tense agreement with ていくうちに
What is the meaning of がち + に + Verb?
Use of 抱く in “聞かせていただいてありがとうございました”
hiragana/kanji and readings
一つしか違いません in this context,
What does the 奈 in 神奈川県 mean?
Questions about Noun+が+Adjective
What is the difference in usage between 闘う and 戦う?
What is the correct term for “contractor” in Japanese?
Grammar of ～がどうかは問題ない
Break down the phrase “[失礼]{しつれい}しなければならないんです”
Causation used with もらう、くれる、あげる
difference between お世話になっております and お世話になります。
trouble translating/parsing sentence with katakana that is confusing
The difference between 今日 and 今日ですね [duplicate]
How's ちゃわなきゃ working in this sentence?
Unable to interpret these sentences: 「まいばんくにのかぞくにでんわします」「このまちにはゆうめいな建物があります」
Is there a kanji term for a leaf blower? [closed]
What does なんだって mean in this case? 「そういう子なんだってだけで…」
Trouble understanding のも in this sentence
Difference between します and されます
会社での出来事を引きずったままだった私 passivity
Research on かのように, and other よう constructs
How is に used in にできる here? [duplicate]
Confusion on してもらって and the subject of this sentence
Question about Ikkyu anecdote in “3 Pillars of Zen”
Why Can't A Name Be Written Literally In Japanese?
I need some clarification with でも as particles!
Help with Japanese for a tattoo - I swear there’s a good reason!
What is the term for two kanjis, that when written in the reverse order, have the same meaning?
What is the correct reading of 黙然?
What is the common reading of the word 外海?
Why does と思います point to “you”?
わける vs 振り分ける — What is the ふり doing here?
Is the pattern V + に行く used with -する verbs?
What's the function of the particle も in this sentence?
What is the difference between 限る and 限定する?
Is there a difference between 辞典 and 辞書 ？
助けてくれて有難う meaning and usage
How do parents say “I” when talking to their children in Japanese?
Difference between 行きます and 来ます in this context [duplicate]
At what age is a person considered to be シルバー?
How is したら acting in this sentence: こいつからしたら当然の反応だが
Translation of ~のことだ?
Is the negative potential of 書く used in this sentence and what is its meaning?
What is this character? 始める_! [duplicate]
Is it possible to make a relative clause & main clause using a formal noun, such as はず?
What で is the で in the expression 「朝寝坊した、それで仕事に遅れたんだ」?
Usage of に in たくさん人参を食べると、きれいになります。 [closed]
Expressing the act of drawing
When stating a non-Japanese name, should the surname come first?
Which is more appropriate? 大学院に入る／入学する／進学する?
What does the term ほおほお mean?
Which categories of verbs (transitive, atelic, etc) can you use with ～そう (seems to; appears)?
Translation of 〜さえ〜ば (“if only ~ then” or “as long as ~ then”)
Removal of て in Japanese novels
Asking for autograph politely
Why is a fountain pen called 万年筆?
What term would be used for commemorative coins and notes collectively?
Is there a difference in usage between 賃銀 and 賃金?
What verb is かまされる?
This use of 以前に
What is the difference between 「いろいろ」and 「さまざま」?
What is the difference between「家族【かぞく】」and「家庭【かてい】」?
Most natural way to use the negative with つもり
What are the nuanced usages of まず?
Why is で used in this sentence 両方セットで差し上げます?
How to say ''I miss you'' at the end of a letter?
ところ＋particle(助詞) precision
What does はなはなはな mean in the Okinawan dialect?
Use of ら conditional form plus なら
About the differences between 貯金 and 節約
Couple of slangs I've heard when watching anime
How to use ふと correctly?
Meaning of 棒立ちの様子
Renyoukei at the end of a sentence
Why is the る left off すぎる in this sentence?
What is the function of たろ in this sentence?
When to omit だ when answering questions?
Why are a high proportion of basic Japanese words written in hiragana?
もう + た-form AND た-form + こと が ある
ぐらい + が meaning
赤らめる 大それた rule for reading
What does どうかと思う mean?
The real meaning of の when asking a question
という店もあります meaning in that sentence?
こっち、そっち、あっち、どっち
Difference between 呼ぶ声がします and 呼びます
What is the difference between ending a question with んだ？and の？
What does “信じて行動する” mean?
Asking if you are there いますか or いるの？
Romanizations of Japanese using consonant diacritics?
Why is 日本 read as “nihon” but not “nitsuhon”?
お父さんの無念を引き継ぎ糧にすることが出来る。 What's the meaning?
I need help on the meaning and translation of 絶賛不登校 [duplicate]
Particle Use When Using Form V-ている/ある at a Location: で or に?
「ようとしない」と「ことがある」の違い
What's the difference between 立ち上がる and 立つ?
So that + adjective? [closed]
首都 (しゅと) and 都 (みやこ)
What is the meaning of キルフェボン? [closed]
Romanizing doubled-up kango
食べていました meaning “Have eaten” or “Just ate” [duplicate]
Does こと mean 'thing' in the following context?
Using は before 欲しい instead が
Is the function of this ある a pre-noun adjectival, or is it a verb that forms a relative clause?
Equivalent to “How to” in guides and the like
The difference between transitive verbs 窮める, 極める, 究める and intransitive verbs 極まる, 窮まるand 谷まる?
What does "やればいける” mean?
Why was し used instead of から？
日常にしがみついた's meaning
左に曲がる/右に曲がる v/s 左折/右折
Given the context, what is the correct way to parse this sentence segment 次に訊くべき言葉が出てこない。?
What does サーブ mean?
What is a female worker who receives a salary called?
文の組み立て JLPT N1 Question about word order
How to use the passive form to say “This flower was watered.”
Use of 全て（すべて）in a sentence
What does 〇〇〇〇 mean when combined with おじさん？
What is the difference between 「警察」and 「警官」?
What is the meaning of 森の恵みがとれない冬や [closed]
The use of 申し上げる and 申す
てもいいですか　vs. causative verb + もらってもいいですか
Asking a question with a negative verb (見なかった?)
Is there a slang word/phrase for “Floor it”?
What does 「飛びついては止める傾向」
Meaning of だけはわからない
Is there a difference between とろっとろ and とろとろ?
誰かの胸の夜の空に伝えたい気持ちが生まれたら meaning
What does “言い出すのかと 思えば” mean? [duplicate]
Because my friend asked me to
What is the difference between なにかな and なんだろう?
Why is て used here?
What is the difference between [上手]｛じょうず｝　and [上手い]｛うまい｝?
Can one say [ゲームを遊ぶ ]?
たくさん人 or たくさんの人 [duplicate]
Why do I need to use のに instead of ので？
onomatopoeia for cluelessness
Confused by passive verb in 無理矢理されたこと
What does “のではないかともいわれておる” mean in the following sentence?
What does 声をかける mean?
Is there some functional difference between デマ and ガセ?
Why is １年 written after 去年１年 in this sentence?
what does mean in these following phrases the grammar rule 「という」
Why is the plain negative in this sentence translated as “haven't”?
日本人のかたですか vs 日本のかたですか
What is the たんだ in と思ってたんだ for the sentence in question?
How would you translate this? バタコチーズライス
Using そうです to respond to a sentence ending in a verb or adjective
What does “いつも” describe here?
transitive and intransitive verbs using を/が particle
can 炎也 and/or 炎羅 be used as a name?
What does “知るべき” mean in the end of this sentence?
How do you say “only to find out” in Japanese
How do you say “the” in japanese?
What is the correct reading of 水気?
Are 变 and 変 the same?
Is 悪いところを見つかった proper Japanese?
Help understanding 反故にしてついてきて、なんて言うの？　身勝手すぎるでしょ
Are there different ways to say nice to meet you in Japanese?
Please help me accurately figure out the kana or kanji for a colloquial phrase said in an anime?
Passive voice + ようにする
Do I have to use nan, ka, or both to ask a question?
Translation struggles - Kuroshio Current being mentioned in a patriotic song
How is に being used in おージャンボにもとーちゃんいたのか?
Why are the kanji for suika and kabocha written with the kanji for west and south?
Please help me translate this sentence [明よせっないスキャットが] [closed]
Te-form and かつ and も？
Extremely casual way to make requests to very close friends
ください/くれる and its various conjugations
What sports are popular in Japan?
What is the difference between 型 and 形?
Use of ni or wa for “ I always eat with my older brother on monday”
What is the meaning of the word “イケた”?
What does “私としてた” mean here?
What does “目的化して久しい” mean in this dialogue?
The different ways to write “fox” [duplicate]
Is 「っしょ」possibly a colloquial sentence ending particle?
What are these two characters marked red? い＿める and いじめ＿いよォ?
Why is しない used instead of じゃない?
Is it even sensible to translate non-English/Chinese vocabularies into Japanese?
Can the term kaiwa no heya be used to mean an actual location/room to chat in?
「その夕食から1日おいて」One day or two?
What is the difference between ある日 and ある日のこと?
What does “また朝までコース” mean?
Does the size of a 町 determine if it is pronounced machi or chou?
Is there a difference between tomo and tomodachi?
Trouble understanding 着ていったら
Which Japanese Particle should go here, (ni) or (wa)?
Do Kanji characters ever have different pronunciations in Kansaiben?
What does 帰れん mean?
Looking to understand a fantasy name
Confusing use of あくまでも
Can a supermarket be considered a yaoya if it sells vegetables in addition to other things?
Which is the correct phrase to say saving money?
What term would be used for commemorative coins and notes collectively?
Japanese equivalent of a brain fart
Saying “some” as in “What are some examples of this?”
What does “苦しいのか気持ちいのかわからん” mean?
Does this sound natural “I want to work long in Japan and make a lot of Japanese friends”
How would I indicate yelling when writing Japanese? [duplicate]
Why is 会わせてあげる being used in the sentence:あなたにはお姉さんがいるの。すてきな人で有名人よ。東京へ連れて行って会わせてあげる 。
Are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4… also considered Romaji?
Changing of diphthongs at the end of words to え in exclamations
N + NO/NA/DA + わけ and generic rule?
Is there a term for being able to understand a Kanji meaning, but unable to pronounce it?
Could I get help with this translation please?
Is there a difference between 「目を覚ます」　and　「目覚める」
What is the expression/word for “going against traffic (flow)”?
Location of adjectives when a verb uses two particles
What are the social implications of being too polite lingustically?
Do you always need the passive voice when saying what happened to you?
Is it shi or si?
美しくつくろい飾ること　This　つくろい's meaning
Use of first が in 町の後ろに山が、前に海があって、
How to say “to cause a problem” in japanese?
Correct translation
Understanding ７７の海岸のうち６０％で、
The location crisis を + が + で + に
How is に being used in これよつばがつかまえに? [closed]
What is に 's purpose in まじめに して下さい?
shakaijin or otona?
How do you say “maybe next time when we visit japan” in japanese?
Japanese chat romaji based acronym/abbreviation usage and meanings [closed]
On the interaction between tense harmony and factivity in (dialects of) Japanese
How is it written deposit money by coin? [closed]
How does なんていう + のも function in this sentence?
Hi I want to know if the correct written characters for boketto (To daydream) is spelled ぼけっと or ボケっと
Are personal names spelled in hiragana or katakana if the kanji isn't known? [duplicate]
Help with translating this quote
Which honorific is correct, oshumi or goshumi?
Confused over role of 「自分が」in this particular passage
Meaning of ギャップ in the following sentence
「侵入したのが〇〇」なぜ「は」ではなく「が」でしょうか
What does this line mean?
Help with かっていうと
新完全マスターN3 drill explanation
Can native Japanese speakers pick up a distinctive accent in people whose first language contains contour tones?
Why did の disappear from 山手, but in 御茶ノ水 it's in katakana?
What does the “きゃ” in “していきゃがらなかった” stand for?
Word for pulling a punch in karate
Meaning of 誰かの代わりに
Placing a space after the first word of a sentence
Usage of ～を好き outside of embedded clauses
Can someone help me figure out what 考えを示しましたが is supposed to mean?
Reading kanjis Kunyomi or onyomi [duplicate]
Does this saying make sense? (Kurayami kara Hikari or 暗闇 から光)
Any help recognising a handwritten kanji?
How to order an individiual item instead of a set?
What phrase or yojijukugo can I use for Pyrrhic Victory?
Expressing “huh” tag?
What is the Japanese word for a 3D character artist/modeller?
Ask for a facility visit to another Japanese company
Trouble understanding 着ていったら
Usage of ★●■▲◆▼ shapes in different combinations
What does で mean when ordering food/drinks?
と in the first sentence + た in the second sentence
What does 「ちんちんかいかい」 mean?
How is 「外野が無理に殻をこじ開けて」 related to 「自身の闇」 in this sentence?
What does the te-form + motion verb mean in 広がってきています?
How to say a noun can be an adjective in japanese
Using a question phrase (~か, ~のか) as an adverb
こんなものか、こんなところか at the end of sentences
Verb Classification of あげる (to give)
How to address / refer to a specific kanji in speech
Is て います always used for the present?
How do you use ってこと
あるか確認 vs あるかを確認
The difference between が and を with the potential form of a verb
What is the meaning of かつ here?
What does 気持がある mean?
Car warning sign [closed]
What is the general way to say something like “in your room?” without a verb?
Saying い adjectives without pronouncing the い
Use of 厨 on the Internet
Why are the verbs connected with てhere? 連れて帰って
Could anyone tell me about how to use か at the end of the news article I see it a lot and get confused about it all the time
Why is の所 used after ドア in this sentence?
Explanation of 「雪も降ってきて」
つけ用 in Udon preparation recipe
Craving for food?
Best practice height/character count for text in tategaki format
i-Adjective before a Noun, here with a “な”
What is the use of で in this sentence?
How does 「あいつは意気地なんだと」 translate into “he's a coward”? [closed]
How do you write “Lesson (number X)”?
Old Japanese vowels in kana
Stroke order of 濃
How would you translate 女将さん
The difference in からandに as location markers in the following
Meaning of 荷重が乗りきる
Difference between 〜がち and 〜つい？
On-/Kun-yomi & Hiragana/Katakana
からできる vs からできている
Reason for に particle in sentence instead of の
multiples noun, noun modifiers other noun?
What does コテッと mean?
Difference between ほど and かぎり
ろくに and trouble understanding sentence meaning
What does と mean in と思います, と言う, and と見る？
What's the difference between 堪える{こたえる} and 堪える{こらえる}？
Meaning of 身分をわきまえず
What is the meaning of 今回のように?
What does ものと見て, mean?
When using an adverb, do pronouns come before or after?
Is the main character's wife cheating on him in these sentences in Osamu Dazai's 「人間失格」
How to interpret the next sentence: 日本の新しい大学を見学します。
Padding of 好みの潰さで味ゎぅ [closed]
What is the mean difference between 取引先との付き合い方 and 取引先の付き合い方? [duplicate]
爵 how do the 'elements' combine to result in 'baron'
Does かえって処理 mean “altered process”
If my business card says 〇〇さん, does that mean I'm referring to myself with an honourific?
What does なり切ってしまう mean?
Distinguish between homonyms & potential form
Particle を　with てある
Understanding てくる in these sentences
What does the ending to this する　conjugation mean してんなぁ?
adding んー to the end of a phrase (e.g. いつ帰ってくるんー？)
I don't understand what 兵器転用 and 内容 means in this sentence
Meaning of はいてなかったり?
Can 々 stand for a duplicated kanji with a different reading?
Is it possible to preserve the literary style of this English passage in Japanese by rearranging the prepositional phrases?
Casual ways to ask meaning?
What does the も particle in this sentence do or perhaps the phrase でも大丈夫です?
What is “It is x o'clock” in Japanese with subject
Is で unnecessary for time references or does direct noun modification have different connotations?
What's this word I always hear in anime? “Oh no!” or “not good!” [closed]
Using prepositions in relative clauses?
Meaning of “チャラにする”
past tense vs non-past in a book
What meaning does やって add to the following main verbs?
Which would be the better translation for “Even though you're X, you're still Y?”
Volitional + と without follow-up
Difference between だけに and だけあって [duplicate]
What is the meaning? — 誰かいないのか
Why the specific spelling “一つひとつ”?
Intransitive verb connects with a transitive verb via Te Form
Meaning of 行かしてもらうから
can nagareru or utsukushi be name?
What degree of uncertainty do かな and たぶん imply?
What's the difference between そうな/に (sou na/ni) and ような/に (you na/ni)? [duplicate]
でようか slang for で良いか? [closed]
怒りを通り越して sentence formation
Clarification of objects using questions
Order of compound particles
~色がする or ~色をする?
Na adjectivs or i adjectives
Usage of にしてみれば
Origin of japanese metasyntactic variables 「ほげ」
Sentence impact: Articles, Negation without verb
Does the word for squid (ika) come from another language?
ごほーし meaning? 18+?
When is it okay to use あります with a living subject?
Is there a Japanese word for the game “horseshoes?”
Are there any consistent rules as to how to distinguish words in Japanese?
What's the difference between 初心者, 入門者 and 初級者
努める and 努むる nuance differences
Is this phrase a grammatically correct translation?
部屋で2人っきりてのがどーもな。 Understanding this て and the meaning of this どーも
Is my hiragana/katakana handwriting good or understandable? [closed]
Why is “not knowing” 知らない and not e.g. 知っていない? [duplicate]
distinguish between grammar patterns and how to remember them
配信 sentence construction problem [duplicate]
What's the correct translation for 'Japanese Student': 'Nihonjin gakusee' or 'Nihonjin no gakusee'?
Is it possible to have two words with the same particle in a sentence?
What does “とらん” mean in this sentence? [duplicate]
られる honorific/polite versus passive origin
〜か知らない or 〜か不安だ
verb tense in ため clause
Help explain と in this sentence [duplicate]
How to say “It was fun to have been able to go there” in Japanese?
What is the difference between はじめまして vs 始めよう?
冗談のつもり the grammatical explanation
Translating “different”?
決めることに賛成です Ni particle
Up-to-date list of Kyōiku kanji?
What are the differences between じ and ぢ, and ず and づ?
What does one call words or phrases that cannot be or rarely refered to with kanji
Reading per kanji / irregular readings
Difference between ばかり, ところ, and 今?
What are the different uses of iroiro?
Why is Katakana not pronounced Katagana?
Nuance when using “も”
やることが多過ぎて気が張っているせいか
What does the title「 僕だけの向こう側」mean? [closed]
Convoluted translation attempt 世界のすべて城砦に抱く
Difference between the words kakemono and kakejiku
what does 人の　mean?
What's the meaning of こそ in this sentence?
What does “日数” mean here?
How to say sir/ma'am when you don't know the name of the person
How to understand 才能に有無があるなら多分そういう事だろう
Should one use the -masu form of verbs when talking about one's own actions?
Etymology of 急須
Translation help for a short sentence
What is 誘われて (Sasowarete) in this song lyric?
Why are Japanese translated subtitles non-conversational?
Meaning of 準備ができたものから
Meaning of て form plus てね in dialog
I need help finding this kanji [closed]
豊かになることが sentence construction
Do people only end sentences with ように after the -ます form?
Pronunciation of 上下
Is it possible to join 以下 + しか?
What does [Item]やったらなんでも売ってる mean?
Help with understanding nuances of extremely popular Kyoto-ben (?) tweet
怒られるのが sentence construction
ダンスの先生なんだから、上手なはずですよ
Can に関わりなく be used with adjectives?
construction of this sentence here?
construction of this sentence here?
Meaning of かわいい When Used By Kids Towards Adults
Reason for と particle after adverb さっき in sentence about something previously mentioned
What does “genki desu” mean in Japanese? [closed]
Science writing - exact, precise, or accurate
What does 次第だ means at the end of a sentence?
There is a difference between Vてこそ, Vばこそ and からこそ？
What's the difference between てかなわない and てたまらない？？
Meaning of 日の跡のささくれ
If somebody just says “暇か”, what does that mean exactly?
彼女は日本の文化にうまく noun
日本の人口が少ないです. adjective and noun in this sentence
using の with と,で, から, まで
Japanese quote marks!
Meaning of ほど in phrases like ご協力のほど , ご指導のほど, ご理解のほど (よろしくお願いします/ ありがとうございます) etc?
What's the meaning and nuance of ばっかり in this sentence?
What is the order of importance of 重大 重要 大切 大事
ほうをかす lend a hou [closed]
What does 「はった」 mean?
What's the difference between ないわけにはいかない and ずにすまない？?
What's the difference between 海獣 and 怪獣? [closed]
Use of なんと to begin a phrase, but not as a question
Temporal ambiguity on mochiko packaging
difference between particles の and を for the verb 紹介する
Is there any rule for hiraganas after the kanji in a verb
What does 今一概に言える equate to? “Now, unconditionally said thing?”
Is there a difference between the dekiteru/dekita part in “Junbi wa dekiteru/dekita”,and ii in “junbi wa ii”?
With what verbal form can とたん be used？
noun adjective sentence pattern
How politely to say “you”?
What does “グジュグジュ” mean?
Use of って when quotation doesn't make sense
Why does 電池 take the を particle
Explaination for はずです?
How to say “The following” in Japanese
What does <verb>ことのある<noun> mean?
What's the difference between 役割 and 役回り?
explanation verbs form 座る　座って　座り
How to say “How long have you had this dream?”
What does the word 「やめにしい」 mean?
What does「ｺﾞｸﾘ」mean?
Meaning of に続いて in this sentence
Chaining verbs with ~て with an object [closed]
How are the different pronunciations of kanji used, such as onyomi and kunyomi?
I want to say “There is a convenience store behind the bookstore on the left”
What is the correct parsing of お高くとまる?
Why the second “は“ in this sentence?
What is the difference between 自由に and 自由で?
What does “目ついてんのか” mean?
How does “ほじくり返す” work in this sentence?
What is the meaning of 一切気にかけようともなさらない in this sentence?
What does “なのかもっと” mean here?
what the different te and tte?
The use of verb stem in the sentence [duplicate]
The meanings of ものだ
How to distinguish 恐れがある and かねない？
How to understand 委ねる in this line
Delimiting prenominal relative clauses
What's the difference between 知り合い & 付き合い?
noun adjective grammar
Is this sentence grammatically correct?
Meaning of 「X 一緒なら Y 一緒」
JLPT N1 listening question: Confused about sequence of events
言ってた　I said or You said
Asking for advice/suggestion “should I…?”
Listing nouns (using “and”)
Deriving the “p” and “b” sound from “h”
sentence structure noun and adjective
What does a て form i-adjective for sentence ending mean?
What's the difference between 上で and 次第？
Why isn't の used after 上で here?
Don't understand meaning of verb stem + ちぎれない
noun-adjective pattern
What is the difference between the pronunciation of 「休校【きゅうこう】」and「急行【きゅうこう】」?
Differences between Wa Nai and Ga Nai?
What's the difference between きらいがあるand がちだ?
How to use 禁じ得ない？
The meaning of と in 未来の国からはるばると
Is reasonable to assume that the 食 in 月食/日食 can be interpreted as the sun/moon being “eaten” during an eclipse?
Particle to use with 順番
What is the etymology of あした?
Which name does the -san go behind surname or given name?
What is the purpose of 〜て in this sentence
Is の方 necessary here?
Different nuances of そっか and なるほど？
Sentences that end in a pronoun [duplicate]
How to ask if a dropped object belongs to someone?
Appropriate polite language when referencing yourself in a letter written on behalf of others?
Nominalization of です？
What's the difference between 反面 and 一方？
What's the difference between とともに and にともない?
Use of Kanji characters
Why was I called 君？
How are Japanese names romanized in localization?
What's the difference between these similar phrases for oblivious person? I.e. 気が利かない人
How would one translate 綺麗 (きれい) in this context?
What/Where usage English vs Japanese
たい form が vs を untangling
How does the second part in the sentence connect with third part?
A grammar issue?
Declining an offer politely using ちょっと and 無理
Is よう an adjective or a noun?
討伐補佐に数えとけよ meaning?
と vs. のを / ことを when used with 信じる
に or で in the sentence pattern “ニュース(に/で)、…という報道があった”
より vs から to mean “from”
Origin of words for eating manners
Why is 一日 used instead of 日 to ask how your day is?
Why don't the characters used for Japanese Kanji have the same meaning as those used in Chinese? (Chinese-Japanese false friends)
申し込みます vs 応募します (to apply)
What is the meaning of ゴト in the context of 鮎
Ni particle in complex sentence
When is <verb stem>+かける's meaning to start and leave unfinished?
How to say:'It's not like he's dying or anything'?
Using 場合 with adjectives
Why can't 最中(に) be preceded by an adjective? (Adj. + 最中(に) )
Is there any difference between 「精々」 and 「たかだか」?
How to use には and では in the sentence
Can 「に」, 「は」 and 「を」 be used as 終助詞 (particles at the end of the sentence)?
How is the passive form used with を?
［ターミネーター2］ How to pronouce Terminator 2 (name of the movie) [duplicate]
Order of sentence's parts in building sad-mooded rhetorical question
How are adverbs listed?
Stative verbs: ～ている　vs　～てある　vs　～（ら）れる
What does んだもん mean and is used for?
What does “教えとくから” mean? [duplicate]
だ and です godan or ichidan
Is an honorific necessary when using someone’s name to say “you”?
Handwriting in Japanese
What does エセインテリ mean?
あまり気持ちのいいものではない in this context
原作を消化していくつもりだ meaning
ところ、よう and other words of many uses
What's the meaning of とはいかないまでも?
What is the Japanese name for the conventional shoelace knot?
What's the difference between には及ばない and までもない？
“Safe” as an adjective?
「が」vs「の」 with possessives
The meaning of 一時期繁く
Difference between ようか・まいか and ようが・まいが
what does ゴゴゴ.. means?
Statistics on common readings for Japanese names
Why is the volitional form used here?
Proper conjugation of 生む
Rain in the city
Should 私の be omitted?
Professional Titles for Engineer
When is it okay to not use desu?
Direct or indirect passive form?
What does this sentence containing 「いい歳したオッサンが」 mean?
歩道 vs 舗装 when meant part of road for people to walk (sidewalk, pavement, footpath)
Possible explanation for the ている-form also being used as past tense?
Was 術 (as in 柔術) ever pronounced jitsu?
と考えていい ending sentence meaning?
Uncertain about なにも
Difference between (て)からというものは and (て)以来？
より in this sentence. When より standing in front? [duplicate]
Conjugate る-ending verbs into negative form
Clarification on colours and い [duplicate]
Meaning of じゃないんじゃない?
form ます and the form て
What is written on my mug? [closed]
Meaning of もてり and use of が
願わくばこのまま穏やかなままとはいかねぇもんだろうか meaning?
What's the meaning of まま in this case?
What's the difference between わけではない and というものではない？
Shin Godzilla/ シン・ゴジラ/ Shin Gojira/ Godzilla: Resurgence [duplicate]
今はなんでもない is asking for location?
How do I use に and を with 繋ぎ留める?
What does 自由課題 mean?
Which kind of literary genre of the following belongs to? [closed]
Difference between 付き合いが悪い and ノリが悪い
What does “知らないより” mean here?
圧が強い what's the meaning?
What does ドロドロしてた mean in 生徒会はこんなにドロドロしてた
What is the proper way of saying “can” about an action?
Is なきにしもあらず~なきに a set phrase?
What does 行けそうなら mean?
What's the difference between にしては、 わりに and くせに?
How to determine the meaning of a Kanji?
What's difference between うるさくないでください and うるさくしないでください
Which reading/meaning of 入り込む is more common？
deciphering a phrase that sounds like “enakatasu” [closed]
How to say [even for somebody] vs just [for somebody]
What's the meaning and the usage of ことだし？
Is there a reason why the 濁点【だくてん】（ ﾞ）are placed below the stroke at ぐ and で as opposed to the other hiragana characters?
Is the reading 腹【なか】 neither an on-yomi nor a kun-yomi?
Please help me confirm the characters to this seal [closed]
What is the difference between よくない yokunai and だめ (dame)
Name of the city 都市の名前 vs 市の名前
What's the difference between 予定 (Yotei) and 計画 (keikaku)?
Meaning of ウケる or possibly 受ける in this situation [duplicate]
Partial ひらがな sentences (why ことし, きのう, きょう, あす?)
なります intransitive verb - volitional/non-volitional
Meaning of 形の上では前後だけど、気持ちとしては
Is there a rule to determine whether or not 「に」 should be attached after 「まま 」?
What's the difference between 限り(は) and 限りでは？
ては's role in this 「追いかけては来ないでしょう」
Use of という in a sentence
What sound does a monkey make?
Politeness / Respectfulness / Humility / Formality
How do you say you are jealous of something/someone in Japanese?
Conjugating present and past negative i-adjectives
N+だ+というN or NというN
How do you say “I am stuck with step X”? 進まない
How to translate “early for tomorrow”
What does 歩けというの mean in this song?
How to use the pattern に行く to express several purposes
What does と言わんばかりの mean here?
How to say “and here I thought”
What does 「１歳遅らせる」 mean?
What does 「あの日のお前に 戻れるはずさ」 mean?
place+にて background
Koto ga arimasu vs. Koto wa arimasen [duplicate]
What does center middle dot in pronunciation transcription might mean
What does 顔を合わせさえすれば mean?
How to determine 大都市 vs 都市
Meaning of “足生やす”
What's the origin of the title 親王?
Why is this sentence ungrammatical? 「お寺が公園のとなりです。」
Should も　be used twice here, or is it an error
“But”, “but also”, “yet”, and “and yet” when listing things?
Determine the correct reading of a word made up from kanjis
How to parse 「場合でも」
What does これでも mean?
Ways to specify “intra-” or “extra-” usage of 北・南・東・西
Has anyone come across the word 畸端?
What constitutes a syllable?
What does “とこの” mean here?
Multiple Kun Reading
すっごいレンジの音がしてるのが気になる。What does the second の mean in this sentence?
te form negative vs negative form (HW: やっていない, why not やらなかった　or　やっていなかった)
「捨ててしまう」Why are there two て’s used here?
Verb (とどめる) and its meaning in these sentences
~te + oku vs plain masu form
How are で and いう being used in this context?
What does 強いとこｷﾀ-------— mean?
What is meant by それはそれで面白い in this sentence
Meaning of によって/により
What does 嵐にしやがれ mean?
What does からって mean?
Using 於ける and 中
Nuance of sentence when とも言えないが is used
Can the particle “no” の be used at the beginning of the sentence?
What does 断っといたから mean?
Why is に marking time and not で？
“Was Warned that …” (correct word choice / use of passive?)
How are ambiguous “brother” and “sister” typically translated into Japanese?
日曜日，the different meanings and pronunciations of 日
The pronunciation of the Japanese translation of dictionary
What does 三角や四角 mean in this sentence?
Meaning of and に and くる in「 A」と「B」に同じグループのものがくる
noun +うちに and noun+間に
How do I say what something is made out of?
先に used with nouns
Usage of て/ので + 心配
What's the いて in 「忘れないでいて」 for?
How to differentiate when に is a target vs. an adverb
What does this sentence containing 「犯人意識」 mean in Osamu Dazai's 「人間失格」?
Sound equivalent in Japanese [closed]
Why does ゆっくり take the honorific prefix ご?
Help understanding this exchange
Differences between 楽しがちに、楽し気味に、楽しげに、楽しっぽく
Use of が in プラス５０円でキャラメルラテかカフェラテがお選び頂けますが。
When to use 言います/ 教えます
1人ではできなかったので友達に手伝って______。
Why is there a difference between the hand drawn 道 and the pc font one?
Doubts about 判明する and verb tenses
“魅力ある人” vs “魅力がある人” vs “魅力のある人”
Does this kanji stamp actually mean “harmony”? [closed]
Historical use of さん
Platonic love?愛情
How is いい being used in this sentence?
Pun/Joke way of saying “Happy Belated Birthday”
what is the Japanese word for “Walk-in Appointment”?
What does 「自分の生きている姿勢」 mean?
When is the に particle used for possession?
What does 妄想ダダもれ mean?
Advice and critics on a Haiku [closed]
How do we describe 'food that has gone cold/food that has gone stale?'
古代のロマン ultimate dream
Why are 湖 and 山 in geographical names typically read in On-reading but 川 in Kun-reading?
Difference in meaning between 掴む and 捕まえる [duplicate]
What does “推し鯖” mean?
Does the 2 “こぼす” here have different meanings?
What does 仕事 and もう mean in this context?
第 [dai-] vs 目 [-me] in forming ordinal numbers
に particle usage in this sentence
Why ロサンゼルス　and not ロスアンゼルス　but ロスアラモス　and not ロサラモス？
Not seeing is a flower?
Why are voiced and unvoiced consonants both acceptable for the same word?
What does “狙いを定めて” mean here?
How to pronounce 0.11％ in Japanese?
What does “調子の良い事” mean when used with “言って”?
What is the meaning of か in といったところか
Listening, I mistake R for any of L, R or even D. Is there any exercise to improve my ability to hear this sound correctly?
五十音: 50-sounder vs 50 sounds
What's the difference between [noun] + の and [noun]+ な?
もらいます／いただきます usage
「誘います」は「招待します」とどう違いますか？ [duplicate]
What does 癖になっても mean here?
What does 思ってやっている mean?
How is するか and 傷つけるか used here, when it's in the middle of a sentence?
とは particle in a sentence
Should I use 円 or 輪 here?
Passive sentence construction
Understanding the connection between adverbs and adjective negation
How is “ひとつな” used here?
What does “その逸話に違わず” mean?
usage of 『は』and『が』with adjectives { na-adj and i-adj }
Understanding the use of だった in this sentece [closed]
Differences between 'prepare' words. 整う、備える、設ける
How do Japanese speakers say “no commentary” in Youtube video titles?
How to politely phrase “what problem are you trying to solve?”
A Question while reading mangas
Translation of some school related terms. 特進、英数、生徒の声
Help identifying a Kanji character from image
貧しい【まずしい】 poor 貧乏【びんぼう】な poor What's the difference?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
How to say my ass [closed]
The use of かります in a sentence
How is ひたすら used here?
Meaning of 水洗式 other than flush toilet
Help with understanding the use of を in this sentece
How do you say “self improvement”?
What's your problem? in Japanese
って　as the equivalent of は
The use of さあ and それじゃ
大学教員の公募にでる「単行本」の意味
What does 呼ばれてる mean in this context?
Meaning of 全数 when talking about frequency
で in a structure
Talking about what we are going to do
The construction with んじゃないかな
What does this sentence from Dazai Osamu's 「人間失格」 containing 「女の修行」 mean?
Meaning of ～なさいということらしい in this context
What's the use of the て-form in this sentence?
Meaning of 離れている間 and how do I read it, please?
What's the meaning of a sentence by a manga author? 「もともとイラスト畑の人間なので…」
Meaning of の in the の、の と pattern (どうのこうの)
What is the origin of おやつ and やつどき?
Which Japanese sentence is grammatically correct?
さえなっている even becoming [closed]
Meaning of を作画 at the end of sentence
How to write existential/locational sentence in Classical Japanese?
What are these Japanese characters which look like an 'S' and a small 'n'?
Referring to a diner in your own party as お客様?
What's the meaning of ぜってーつえー
What is the correct reading of 心底?
伝聞を表さない、文末に来る「という」の働き
What does 母と慕う彼女は mean?
Trouble understanding 相変わらずとぼけた奴
Do only shop staff use 当店, or could I use it too to say 'here'?
Is there a common etymology for the kanji 巳	and 己 and 已?
multiple を particles before a verb [duplicate]
Can the を in ～を通して be replaced with は?
Is there any reason a lot of body parts use the Month/Moon radical?
How do you say lychee? Does it have a kanji as well? [closed]
“z” sound, which to choose?
What is the correct expression of 10/20, 20/30, 30/40 etc?
The uses of である
What do you call males in their late teens/early twenties?
How can I say “With the passing of time…”?
The difference between すみません　and すみませんが
What are the illustrations used in Japanese TV called?
Relationship between temporal/adverbial nouns modified by relative clauses with verbs
What does すべき mean in 'この記念すべき日'?
Meaning of “ホーケー” in a sentence
What does 通して聞く mean when they are used together?
Why is 臓 in this sentence?
Jibun dake baka o miru meaning?
I'm lost in this “thought bubble” of a manga, I don't know what it says
What are the adverb + 何 +を doing in the following sentence?
what is relative time in Japanese language?
How do Japanese speakers transition from polite to plain form amongst friends?
What are some well known exceptions for 居る (いる) and 有る (ある)?
Reading of 摘み in this sentence
“Boku mo tsurete!”
What does the word 「ごねだした」 mean?
need help translating 「本音を言うと自分の部屋で一人でいるほうがホッとできます。」
The connection of clauses
Making adverb form of verb + なります
How to use 誤認されます
Difference between はじめの~ and はじめての~
How do I say that I called someone?
Understanding the use of か
Meaning and usage of ずっとそう思っていました。
Meaning and usage of: [〜か]　〜か　にもよりません
Can't understand the meaning of a sentence: 「使い物にならなきゃ 素手でやるだけか」
What is the form of this verb 頼まれてた?
What does にへら mean when beginning a sentence?
How to express action (in plays, and online)
Meaning and use of 悪くないか
What is the 中 in ダウンロード中？
Meaning of 意義があるかどうかは自分で判断しないかもしれません
What does というように mean?
Does linking adjectives allow you to talk about multiple variations of something?
What's the い in ない?
How to say “photobomb” in Japanese
Is there a difference between 同じ気, 同じの気, and 気の同じ?
Why is katakana considered its own character set while the Latin capital letters aren't?
Writing conventions / pronunciations for words with っ
Negative adjective 恐怖せず [duplicate]
adjectives + narimasu
How is では used under these contexts?
What is the difference between 生活 and 暮らし?
ようとする and ようとしている
Is there a negative form for adverbs?
うれしい(ureshii) Vs たのしい(tanoshii)
What is the difference between て phrase ending verbs and nominalized verb-stem phrase ending verbs? [duplicate]
Difference of 減量 and 減少
くれた and もらった used with 泊まって
How can I use the conditional ～ば and desiderative ～たい together?
~ ないで for 'without doing ~' and 'don't ~'
まぁ、そんなものですかな？ perhaps this means perhaps, perhaps?
role of -られ, -し, and construction of the phrase
Help a translating this phrase
What does “舐め取られてる” mean in this sentence?
What does “腰抜ける” mean?
What does 気楽 mean when attached to ビール or お酒？
で at the end of sentences [duplicate]
Where to put the dakuten and handakuten?
ちいとばかし苦しいから extra cash to make ends meet
What does「電車に乗ってたらなんだっていうんだろね」mean in this context?
Which is more common for “I miss you”: 会いたい or 寂しい？
Can だ be left off in informal sentences?
Difference between と and たら [duplicate]
正々堂々勝負して's meaning
Expressing that something is multiple things at the same time (e.g. “She is an artist and a poet”)
Are there any words which use 'カ', the on-yomi of 何?
Does the 未然形 of i-adjectives show up in today's Japanese?
袂を分かつ Can someone explain this expression?
How does が mark the subject in this sentence?
便利な工具 what does な means
拈得せん in a writing by Genkaku
What does 事前 refer to in this sentence?
How many Joyo (and perhaps Jinmeiyo) Kanji have only one onyomi?
I want to know what “marumaru” means
Does 横になる imply a certain position?
Comparing the usage of というのは and ということは
What is the difference between と話す　and に話す
What is the verbかけ- form used ? If any examples then please explain
What does 意識が遠くなる mean?
How to ask “How about you?” after answering a question yourself
Can personal pronouns be written in hiragana?
What is the function of は in the context?
What are some special ways to use よく besides “often” and “well”?
Could you help me understand the use of くれ in this example?
How does Japanese indicate a contextual scope changes like the internet vs. the Internet?
When is a table not a table?
What is the difference in meaning between「この自然が多い町」and 「自然が多いこの町」?
Are there any differences between 〜けらず and 〜ざりけり? Are they interchangeable?
Are です and あります／います ever interchangeable?
How do you say “or” at the beginning of a sentence?
What does it mean when みたいな is at the end of a sentence?
How does the 「どこの」 construction work?
っていうことになったんですけど - meaning?
のです abbreviated to んで？
Is it possible to join directly い-adj + この + noun?
「呆れる」とはどういう意味ですか？
Does “酒入ってる” mean drink alcohol?
Difference between が, の, and no particle
そのまま and parts of speech
What does “ようと” usually imply in news articles?
How to use the colloquial word 「アリ」？ [duplicate]
Why is こと used in 「私に何かできること」？
The difference between Verbても and Verbてでも
Do you read the 一片 in「一片の雲」as ひとひら or いっぺん?
How to say “if a is happening or b is happening” using たら?
Head-internal relative clauses
Saying “and” with two different clauses?
Habitual aspect
What this phrase “そういうつもりで” mean?
Meaning of とか and こう in context なんかお店とかに、こう歩ってて
What does “体張ってるかいがある” mean?
Word games in Japanese (similar to Newspaper games in English?)
How to say “that” as in “the cow that ate” in Japanese?
How to hear the difference between て and で, た and だ, か and が, etc.?
What does もうここにいられる気がしない mean?
Origin of こんな, そんな, あんな and どんな
What's the difference between “認められておらず” and “認められず”?
Meaning and usage of やっぱり (矢っ張り)
How often are です and 〜ます used among friends?
Is there a way to say the two best?
これから　in the middle of a sentence?
て form of causation form when used with もらう/くれる
Difference between 〜といい and 〜ように for “I hope…”
How to say “There we go!” and “Lemme think…”
Meaning of 人同士 in these sentences
When should I use は?
う/る＋ことになる construction
Why is it correct to use ～た in this sentence, even though we're talking about next week?
Asking informal questions with 何
What is the meaning of 「ご安心いただければと存じます。」?
Using 何 with the general counter ~つ
Help with grammar of this sentence
What does 一発 mean in this context?
Is it possible to use the 〜たい form with the particle が instead of を? [duplicate]
Trying to figure a phrase I've been hearing: ななじゅっと
Confirming someones plans?
Does 旧車 clearly imply “classic car” or will it simply mean “old car” to many Japanese speakers?
What is the purpose of the か in this sentence?
Under what circumstance does using 普通形 of a verb imply a request?
Does さっさと here mean “quickly” or like “hurry up”?
Can you answer the question 何を飲みますか？ with 水です。?
The difference between きわめて and いたって
Is どんな in this context a question?
で in the copula である
Uses of 「四つ角」in quizlet as intersection？
Nouns: References to “Both” and “They”
What is the meaning of “超か” in this news headline?
When should I use 週 versus 週間 for “week”?
Is the sentence 「もう少し誠実に対応頂けませんか。」rude and unprofessional? What does it literally mean in English?
What does “用意する身にもなれっての” in this dialogue mean?
Use of さ as a filler
What part of speech is the 「〜たい」 form of a verb?
Meaning of けらている
What does もとめたのココ mean? [closed]
Help understanding this line - usage of くれる
What's the meaning of 遺る and 強くなんない in the context of drinking?
『坊っちゃん』の「親譲り」と「損」の理解のし方
How is Volitional + と used in these sentences?
What does 人の手により in this sentence mean?
Why is 'no smoking' 禁煙, whereas 'to smoke' is 吸う?
What does これでチャラにしとくよ means? [duplicate]
もらう and もらって when used with various forms of verbs
Using もらう with に/を particle and passive/causative forms
Using ダメ with なくては？
What is the difference between 端, 縁 and 先っちょ?
Saying “fill up”?
Non-romantic way to say you “like” someone?
Mathematical subjects in Japanese
Expressing “to” - stuff to do, a movie to see, etc
Is this Japanese sentence correct?
What does adjective + め means [duplicate]
Sentence structure + 人がわるい
Can「他【ほか】に」and「それに」be used interchangeably when conveying “in addition”?
Function of と in Xと人気になる
How does 恋バナ function here?
What does “回る” mean in this sentence?
How to say phrases “Can you repeat that” and “can we go to the next question”?
Peeing and pooping
What does 松の木に吊るされた mean in this sentence?
Meaning of「〜てみたいと思います」
What does オト mean here?
What is the meaning of いいから in this sentence?
Origin of the small っ
Saying “I don’t have to…”
Difference between なきゃand なくちゃ [duplicate]
Function of と when used with 続く
About the word 地図
How does これ以上する work in this particular context?
placement of さえ
What does the word 「こい」mean?
What does らん in 「強からん事を祈る」 mean?
The meaning of a て-form verb at the end of this sentence
Is it acceptable to learn just one pronunciation for each kanji? [closed]
Understanding 自分は in this sentence (and other potential gross misunderstandings)
Is で marking end of the sentence in this case?
Is there a word for non-binary in Japanese?
Difference でない and ではない
How to say “Developer” In Japanese?
Difference between using ていない/ている and just ない/る when used with potential (られる) form
How to interpret intransitives in non-past tense
Translation feedback request
Differences between “even if”/“no matter (how much)” structures: としても, ところで, ~ようが/と
Are on’yomi words loanwords?
Is there a specific reading for 常訓 and 常音?
What is the implied-verb represented by the sentence-ending を in the following context？
How does “suku” (empty) become “suite”?
I need some help understanding the grammar of しのげそうな in この寒さをしのげそうな防寒服を手渡され
Sentences without topic particles?
What's the ultra-polite way to invite someone to do something?
Why does “Rendaku” not apply in 少々 お待ちください?
Is my handwriting (hiragana) understandable? [closed]
Usage of こいつ, あいつ, etc
What's the meaning of 〜ておきます?
Do these two sentences mean the same thing?
What does emphasis mean in the がして of the following sentence? [duplicate]
Meaning of 文字起こし? [closed]
What is the term for two kanjis, that when written in the reverse order, have the same meaning?
What is meant by 実感が欠けていく here?
How do you say “some”, “many”, “a few”, and “few” when referring to people?
１０００万の妹好きを… in this sentence
Meaning of「悪いとは思うけれど」in this context
What does ぐいつ mean? [closed]
Reason for using じゃないですか in this sentence?
The meaning of いた in this sentence related to be left surviving
注意する conjugation and ~てもらう
What is the meaning of 「隣のおじいさんは言いました」
Differentiation between subjects in relative clauses?
What does it mean these symbols? [closed]
What is the use of ごと in this clause?
How do you formulate the 連用中止 with 形容動詞 (な adjectives) and 名詞 (nouns)?
Elongated お in the volitional verb form
What does のそ mean in this picture?
What does nushi means in japanese?
What does this に力を入れていますmean? In what context do you use this?
to say + tara form
Is the book Genki wrong about volitional + と思っています?
いつしか+noun , what does it mean?
Connecting sentences with dictionary form verbs?
What does にとり mean？
Doubt about this situation with the particle は
Why would parents ever want to name their daughters with the following names?
着 vs 衣 to refer to gi?
おはよう written as おはよ?
Meaning of 感じの in this sentence
Difference between「のびる／のばす」and「のべる」
Etymological connection between 戻る and 元
Pronuncation of r in Japanese name [duplicate]
Use of の vs か in questions
Can わけがわからない be used as adjective?
Kanji etymology of 毎?
What does 迎える translate to in this context?
Meaning of んでしょう in this context?
Saying “that” like “It’s nice that…” or “It makes me sad that…”
What does と do in this sentence? Is it just quoting?
What is the difference between 反日 and 日本たたき?
What does this sentence with いつ mean?
Use of やと in 「日本人やとそれが当たり前やから、いまいちわからない」？
Can't find out what symbol this is
Finding a Notion for もう
Should I use sonkeigo if I meet a celebrity?
How accurately can のこと be translated as 'with regards to' in the following sentence?
Purpose of のは in this sentence?
What is the etymology of タマ in タマを取る?
Range of numbers
Ｂさんといるところを評価されれば meaning
What is the difference between 考え、アイデア、発想 and 着想
好きだ or 好きな: which one to be used in the below mentioned sentence
Can the 歳 counter be used for architecture, furniture etc to tell its age?
Would Painful Death Place be an appropriate translation for 痛死名地
What are some Japanese euphemisms for death and dying? [closed]
How does work それが and ため in the context of ･･･それが熊のために騙されて･･･?
Meaning of 挙げてきた in this sentence [closed]
Congratulating someone on the new Era/Emperor
Is the following Japanese sentence negative or positive in English?
Is my translation of “こちらから訊くより先に、低く呟くような声が返ってきた” correct?
What does 何か mean in this sentence? [duplicate]
What implication does 臨まれた mean in this context?
What is being referred to by やり過ぎてる (also why てる instead of た)
Difficulty understanding the sentence: 私たちは生命の危険を失うおそれがあった。
I need some assistance with understanding これといった in the following sentence
Ambiguity of Xのようだ
How to combine 受身, 使役, 可能, etc?
〜ている + そうだ（様態） =?
Difference of reading between [易]{やさ}しい and -[易]{やす}い
Saying 'In my opinion, the internet has more good points than bad points'. [Comparative]
What does 「再々起」mean?
Is the following のが a nominalizing のが?
Asahi Dry Black beer can
What does “gentle interrogative” mean?
Where does っぱい derive from?
Do you use あります or います when talking about a sports team?
Is a sentence ending with “か……。” a question or a questionative statement?
Why is 燃える + ゴミ = burnable? But the verb is not in ta-form
What is difference between 「振り替える」 and 「振り込む」?
Can I say 「うれしかったことは ○ ものです」 where ○ is not in past tense?
How to say “In the morning/afternoon/evening”?
An uncommon variant of 写
Why the difference in metal between 銀行 and お金?
In terms of comma placement, does the following rough translation match the Japanese?
How is 今一度 a noun in Japanese/English?
What is the difference between 「結局【けっきょく】」and 「とうとう」?
Question about how to read 如何
A word to express a feeling of sudden release from intense pressure that had been building up over time
Why are some names pronounced differently from their on-yomi and kun-yomi?
Question about かな and だろう
Meaning of XほどYほどでもない
How to say 'I want to be red' in Japanese?
What does ゆーか mean?
difference between バス停 and バスターミナル?
What does “水着勿体ないんでよかったら今度のお休み” mean here?
How do you say, “Do you need an interpreter?” in Japanese? [closed]
Nuance for 沼沢、泥沼、沼地、沼、沼田
How would you use しか and ありませんでした together?
もんだと after する verb meaning
Conveying total time spent over years
How to say “the day after the day after tomorrow”
What does hoi mean?
What does むわりと mean?
Help identifying a handwritten character [closed]
Sentence ending at に what means?
to see a doctor
What does こした mean?
What ならねー means? [duplicate]
「に、へ、まで」the difference in use with verbs
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
Till what age can an infant be called akachan
Are these furigana wrong? [duplicate]
How to translate a line with no apparent main verb
Meaning of this sentence, confused by まで
What is それ referring to in this narration?
Pitch Accent for ~ない and ~たい
Help translating English idioms
How to break 信じようとしていただけかも知れない into separate parts?
Etymology of 見舞い
What does のかもな mean at the end of a sentence?
What is the difference between 閉​め​る (shimeru) and くれ​る (kureru)?
Meaning of ちゃっかり in ちゃっかり口には入れてた
What is this そらしてはなりたい
などの followed by a Noun
Is honorific speech ever used in the first person?
Meaning of 境 in その日を境に
Meaning of ですかね in a response
まま and the particle に
Is “ゲーム中に使用する” a descriptor in “ゲーム中に使用する最大HPを書き写す”?
Writing style of Imperial Army signal messages
How to address someone in an email who referred to themselves as part of a department
What is the role of と after a noun when it doesn't appear to count or list anything?
Why is gemination limited to voiceless obstruents?
Ore hitori de wa kesshite miru koto no deki nai keshiki; It's a view I could never see on my own
What does って at the start of a sentence mean?
Correct use of かけて
What is the origin of 落第?
て versus combining-form for joining clauses
Usage of ところ to represent time with に and で
Shigeru Miyamoto interview
Three ways of saying 'mother': 母, お母さん, 母親
Tense of なる when used with おそい
How do I make my translation less stilted or flow similar to the original Japanese?
Different ways of saying “single”?
あいだ, ところ、しまった in a sentence
How to pronounce 伝統色
Sentence order: Where to put もう
Importance of からだ in this sentence
Morning, Afternoon, Night Kanji
question with でしょうか
Best Way To Write “Wonderful Cousin” — Subarashī Itoko?
Correct order of horizontal and vertical strokes
When to use “イ形容詞” plus “ったって”
What's the difference among 夜中, 真夜中 and 夜?
六道 is it rikudou or rokudou
Is there a specific time to pronounce 日本, にほん/にっぽん?
Having Trouble Identifying This Character (or Characters?) [closed]
Correct translation of sentence with できていません [duplicate]
Relative clauses: 多い人 vs 多くの人
What does できなさすぎる mean?
また usage in a dictionary
Structure of -しい adjectives
Are there kun'yomi ateji?
'いつ空いていますか' vs 'いつ空きますか'
How do I translate this one?
Difference among evening words 夕方, 夕べ, 晩, 夕?
Special meaning of 手が挙がる
Justifying が into を
What's the meaning of 間時肆拾貳 at a car parking sign
Pitch accent of nominalizers
What is the origin of 落ち着く?
Meaning of 表現する in an article about programming
How does the particle を relate to the verb 行く in the structure「A を + B に行く」?
How to read the names 勲 and 房子 [closed]
Difference between して and したり
Using から with the verb 言う
What nouns can ながら turn into adverbs, and how does this differ from に? (残念ながら、当然ながら…)
Particles that indicate surprise [も/まで]
Etymology of 引き分け: same as English?
Use of phrase 喉から手が出るほど
Why is graduating from graduate school 修了 instead of 卒業?
Can 11,000 be written １.１万?
Confusion between もらいます and くれます when used as a post-fix to te-form verbs
How many things? AとBがふたつ
Is my translation wrong?
How should I read 花弁?
When speaking informally, do native Japanese speakers always remove い after て in present continuous tense across all conjugations?
What should I use 来ません or 来ません でした
What is Yamouen/Yamoen?
Difference between はじめる and ようになる
Particle missing in 'こんなにおいしいの食べたことありません'
Meaning of 「微細にわたる説明」
When is it possible to use “だったって”?
Difference between 帰宅{きたく}する and 帰{かえ}る
How to pronounce 1ターン?
The meaning of ぐっぽぐっぽ ; グッポグッポ ; グポグポ(?) ; ぐぽぐぽ(?)
鵺 Chimera Bird in Making of Cyborg and Reincarnation
Verbs that go well with しっかり
Alternative to の
Translating アンニュイに言われても
What does もの mean in this sentence?
In a sentence, do you use 'waga' or 'onoga' for possession?
Need help with artwork
How would you translate 「腰掛で仕事をする」
What's the difference between 派遣 and 出向?
What does ピクンッ mean?
Origin of the usage of な in ~なんだ
What does ひと匙 mean in this manga and has it been used colloquially?
More 'romantic'/better than すきです / だいすきです
How do you say “canon” as in “official for a story universe”?
さあていくわ vs さあ行くわ
How to look up for stems (in the etymological sense)
Being addressed as “Anata” by a Japanese male friend [closed]
Could one have more than one verb in the same sentence be converted to indirect passive?
Is 年月 (months and years) read 【としつき】or【ねんげつ】and is there a difference?
What does the Japanese word “Shalaku” mean?
What does もの in the following sentence mean?
Characteristics of 'loan word root + る' verbs
(Verbs) To arrive ~ Touchaku suru vs Tsuku vs Todoku
Would it be valid to change the いい in (verb)ても良い into a negative?
What is the nuance between 内に and 間に in these sentences?
Is pronoun switching on the fly a thing?
誰も + potential verb form
～う／ることが（は、も）ある construction
Tsunetero from tsundere [closed]
Why are weather verbs 曇る and 晴れる treated differently in this sentence?
するだろうな wonderment or a question?
Meaning of 法律の定めるところにより処罰する
In Japanese, what’s the difference between “Tonari ni” (となりに) and “Tsugi” (つぎ)? When would you use one over the other?
Counters for animals: 匹 vs 頭: roughly how big is “big” and how small is “small”?
What is the difference between 相棒 and 相手?
Why does this Light Novel title get translated to the past tense?
So I understand 人外 is an anagram of 外人, but does 外人人外 mean evil foreigner?
Meaning of に in 本当に
Can I use (てform verb) repeatedly with different verbs to emphasize different actions, or is it just with one verb?
Nuance differences between the kanji for ぐあい, 具合 and 工合
What conjugation is 熱せられる? [duplicate]
Etymology of 山賊
Unable to identify a semi-cursive? Kanji
Transitive-intransitive pairs with different readings
Ups and downs: かみ・しも vs うえ・した
Dictionary form of verb as nouns
What is the difference between 仮定 and 想定?
Confusing translation? 「不慣れな思いをするのは私一人で十分ですよ」
Who belongs to one's “group” in business?
What is the function of “に” in the following sentence?
te-form being used two times with the same verb
How would you express the sentiment of “Happy New Era” [duplicate]
Comparing nouns
Possible bad meaning of サル (Saru)?
How to identify myself as someone's son/daughter?
How difficult is the 万葉集 to read?
meaning of 腰を落としている
Can たい and たがる be used for a 1st/2nd/3rd person's desire?
What is the difference between 扱う、捌く、 解決する and 処理する
What could 何も無かったり、有ったり mean?
What is the meaning of バキン?
The usage of ～ば
How obscure is the use of 令 in 令和?
Different meanings of こわい
Is there a methodology for forming the intuition to count in myriads?
In a period of time
ずぽ meaning in ずぽハメ
Meaning of 目 in 思っている目 and usage of honorifics to refer to oneself
When is it appropriate to begin referring to 明仁 as 平成天皇?
How do I write out a multiple choice question in Japanese?
What does グパ mean?
What does “と” mean in “貴方を呼ばないと約束するから”?
What will the new character ⿰令和 look like?
Could someone help me understand this sentence [duplicate]
An unclear form in a song
About using おかげさまで as a standalone
How do you say “I have begun studying Japanese”?
Help understanding whose 解釈が間違ってる
What does 面と向かってどうするってんだ mean
I can't understand this tweet
How would one say “Grandma died, I really miss her”?
Two も clauses and then です
What's the meaning of ヌき所 in this sentence?
What does the なる and the と mean in this sentence
こと as an Imperative
What does “ってっか” mean?
Sentence starting with て?
What does ウン歳 mean?
Interpreting Japanese sentences from right to left or left to right
Pronunciation of verbs ending in う
How to say “a few years in the future” / “a few years from now”
How would you apologise for not inviting someone to an event?
Is “面白いな陸” correct? [closed]
Why から with 始まる?
Why まで in this sentence?
Difference between 反射(する) and 映る
Saying “Only I [do X]”, “Only I [like X]”, and “I am the only [Y] who [does/likes X]”
Ways of saying 'true/certain' - 本当, 確か, 絶対
Understanding meaning of ここまで来ると
What's the nuance behind using を要らない as opposed to が要らない?
Help understanding 最高のアングルっていうのは魂の叫びなのよ
Order of complements in phrase
What does それはそれでまったく意味が分からん mean in this context?
What's the use of “-なきゃ”? [duplicate]
What grammatical function is や performing here?
What's the difference between にはおかない and にはすまない?
Help translating 系 and ネタ this sentence
Trying to figure out how どんなとこ works [duplicate]
What does “Itatakimas” actually mean?
Does using the past tense make the conversation more polite?
Help understanding this line
出す as an auxiliary verb
What is the reason leading to the difference in tense used for affirmative and negative statements in the construction V~ほうがいい
Question about who the subject is
sentence from chibimakuro :) ベタに真珠っていう諺をきくと [closed]
What is the difference between でいる and である in this example?
What does 微温い mean in this context?
Who is being referred to in 責任を持って送り届けよう?
Why is となって used here instead of になって [duplicate]
What is the better way to say 'Asian Studies'?
Unknown Kanji on Mountain Rock
Understanding this usage of 「〜に変わって」
What does 権威 mean when referring to goods?
Are they the same: コショウ vs コショー
Alternative meaning of ものか
Can you nominalize a verb and then use it again as verb by combining with です?
Why 気にされる instead of 気にする?
Is exact Kanji stroke length important?
Is “わけわかんねーよ!” some shorten casual form of speech?
What is the Japanese phrase for “art of the horse”?
Why sometimes the same words are used in hiragana and katakana?
Meaning of 連絡入れる前の話が筒抜け in this exchange?
「許可が来ましたか？」の尊敬語
Help with すぐ in a sentence
How does the conditional（れば） + 一緒 structure work?
「認めるところである」とはどういう意味ですか。
Why is “language” represented by 言葉【ことば】 instead of 言語【げんご】 in this book for learning Japanese?
What's the difference between 違法 and 不法?
Should spaces be used when writing foreign names in katakana?
Help translating this tweet
What is the difference between Tsuite kuru (ついて くる) and Tadoru (たどる)?
How to use 彼 and 彼女?
How to split “をしていたとされ” to correct words? I try to split to words and query in dictionary but get nothing result
Meaning of 安そう in 永代使用料とか安そうよね
Is '大勢の人' redundant?
Difference between 見覚える / 覚える / 思い出す
How does 出てます here translate?
What kind of conjugation is「お召しなすって」?
How do I parse this sentence using という話?
Translation of すべて as “none of”
Understanding grammar and translation of 入出国 in followng sentence
Difference between 癒せ and 癒せる
で used with non-action verbs like あります
Literary work using all (or most) of 常用漢字
How to pronounce 面?
Raishuu ni natta or naru?
Is the 'wa' in wasabi and wakame related?
Would だれがいますか mean who is in or whose in this case?
も particle use in a story
What is meant by 魔法が単なる数式みたくなって意味を見いだせなくなってしまう
How to translate 'She got him bitten by a vampire on the neck (so that he becomes one)'?
Greeting mispronounced to be funny
What's the difference between 解く【とく】and 解く【ほどく】?
Meaning of “のであり” in the sentence
How to address misbehaving kids (not one's own)
How to read this sign and what it means?
How would you translate “more” for use as an interface button?
In the clause われこそはと心驕りしていられる方々からは, … what does the と mean?
Understanding 一面の緑 in this sentence
Does this Kanji: 全効答 (Zen kō Kotae) mean “total efficiency” or at least convey it symbolically?
What is the correct reading of 士?
What’s the difference between “tabun” (たぶん) and “desho” (でしょう)?
Please can someone explain the use of こと and ことに in these sentences?
How to translate 'She got him bitten by the dog'?
Distinction between 地平線 【ちへいせん】 and 水平線 【すいへいせん】
A name for common words that use uncommon kanji?
Progressive form of movement verbs (or other stative verbs)
Desperation 死に物狂い
Are there general guidelines regarding the length of sentences in Japanese written text for the sake of readability?
How is 修業 different than 練習 or 訓練?
Relative pronouns in せずにはいられない + noun
How to say “give some space”
How did でしょうand だろう come to mean “probably”?
How to say someone “feels distant”
Why is the verb 選ばれる left in its stem form in the middle of this sentence? [duplicate]
Is it legitimate to say「意味する」to mean “to mean”?
この近くにレストランはありますか - Why Chikaku and why koko(DE)? [duplicate]
What Is The Difference Between 「好きじゃないです」and 「好きではないんです。」?
need help with this sentence 「あんたも鈍いね, あの子は脈ありだべさ 」
How to understand 「僕は誰より彼女が好きなんだ。」
What is 露わになる affecting in the following sentence, '才能の持ち主' (持ち主 to be specific) or '才能'?
What is 管理しきれず?
How does ことし配信された動画配信大手 work as an attribute here
建国記念の日 but 憲法記念日
Can you separate clauses using ついて/ use a clause ending with ついて as an entire subject/topic?
How does 取材で訪れた integrate into this sentence?
What does “mu” mean as an interjection?
“i form” usage doubt
な-adjective + ように
た くみ or 匠 or たくみ
Difference between 戦争 and 戦火 in this exchange
What is the difference between ぶらつく and ふらつく?
What is the meaning of まっちろけ?
The meaning of 振り in 無茶振り
What does 高層ビルに何車線もの道路。mean?
What is the counter for kingdoms?
What is the Japanese sound word for the clinking of money?
When is である/な Needed for Certain Words?
Why あります instead of です in this sentence?
が in the expression “耳が聞こえない”
What are the nuances between the use of 訊く instead of 聞く in the following sentence?
What does さっさ mean?
The difference between「N分で」and「後N分で」
Why does いい加減 have diametrically opposite meanings?
Software described as 香ばしい
Use of プラトニック in this sentence?
Was simply 思う omitted here?
Can です be used attributively (as a modifier of a noun)?
When does も mean 'even though'?
What is the etymology of the kanji 寺?
What does 分 means in “国分寺”?
What is the difference between [上手]｛じょうず｝　and [上手い]｛うまい｝?
What does おとこえしや mean?
Distinction between 早速 and さっさと
What does it mean when multiple 々 marks follow a 、?
For dinner I ate
Difference between てもらう and てくれる
How to say “Play along”?
Parents-in-law in Japanese
The difference between 時　and 時は
Why can は and を sometimes be used interchangeably?
どこ and なに in subject questions
Question about kanji 分?
How does “ 一切” mean all/entire?
Following a train of thought
Meaning of ちはース
What is the definition of 凶々?
だいぶ撒いとるしなあ means what?
What would be the correct way to say “Moose” in Japanese? Ty in advance [closed]
Describing personalities, saying colourful
Meaning of ものかわ in a Haiku
What's the difference between ～かかる and ～ところだ
what's the difference between 痛い and 辛い?
How to convey the image of the surrounding L.A. desert via translation of 愕然?
What does そういうこと mean in this exchange
What’s the difference between “用” (you) and “使​っ​て” (tsukatte)?
ガンアゲ translation/meaning
Is there an actual difference in meaning or nuance between 私達の世話をする and 私達を世話する?
What is the etymology of the kanji 石?
Do I have a good grasp on the basics of what the continuative form is?
How to link two cause–effect statements in close succession?
Will expression retain the same definition if particle is changed?
Translation of 答えを知っている人はいませんでした
Does the も particle mean “as far as” in the following sentence?
How to say unpredictable in Japanese
Difference 記念日 vs 周年
How to say “Some” in Japanese
I need help with locating nuances in translation for the phrase 錆の浮いた
What does it mean to end a sentence with ひとつだけ?
How do I say in Japanese “I'm doing much better/healing well”?
“~たい”-form and associated particle usage
Is this “Tayō-sei no naka no tōitsu” a correct translation of “Unity in Diversity”?
What is the etymology of モテる?
Is the し in はじめまして pronounced as “shi” or as “sh”? [duplicate]
Does the nanda at the end of ここはどこなんだ mean “what”?
Transcription and pronunciation of words that had “wi” in them in English and are「ウィ」in Japanese
Can verbs simutaniously use the volitional form and negative form? [closed]
Does this translate to “good job?” [closed]
The past tense for the quoting particle って
Combination of causative-passive and intransive verb with a direct object?
What kind of inflection is occuring in passive vb + かかった?
What is the etymology of the kanji 金?
Problem with sentence ぶった！この子ぶった！ [duplicate]
Meaning of “お戯れを”?
For the Kanji 校 is the fifth stroke connected to the sixth stroke?
ように translation help
Are there more casual ways to say “flowery speech/language” aside from 美辞麗句?
How does さっきまで = “as before” in さっきまでと同じ部屋
Difference between 黒齣 and 黒駒
What does っちゅう mean in this sentence? [closed]
Is 長 in Japanese related to “naga” in Thai and Sanskrit?
Issue with figuring out what [どう+なの] correctly translates to in the following sentence
Dictionary form + と for a single occasion
と for talking about tomorrow
Pronunciation difference: イオ/イヨ
How do I translate my Chinese name into Japanese?
Meaning of katakana at the end of okurigana in this song lyrics
Meaning of 前を歩いてた人
How do Japanese speakers determine the implied topic when none has been mentioned?
What does ことだけ mean in general?
Meaning of すきっとした
What does 水をこざく mean?
Meaning of ご休憩一時間コース
Question about それに following a verb in dictionary form
Is V-て + は used to connect the two clauses of the following sentence with a conditional relationship, a causal relationship or a different one?
japanese equivalent of “Mmmm” as in “Mmmm I like that!” or “Mmmm, delicious”
How to know the real eytomolgy for any kanji? [closed]
What is the etymology of the kanji 食?
What or where does 所 refer to in しかるべき所に相談をしておきたい
“If I have done that” in the continuous form? [duplicate]
What is the Japanese word for a judge in a court of law?
What is the etymology of kanji 問?
Is there a rough variant of 飲む{のむ}?
Sleeping verbs and まで vs までに
Meaning of 一軒 in context
Ambiguity with particle と
What's the meaning of “心臓って耳の中にあったんだね”? [closed]
Is からすると contraction of から判断すると?
まあいいか or まあいっか or まあええか or まあえっか
How do I say ''Idle animation'' in Japanese?
what does しにみえてる mean?
初めてです, is '初めて' an adverb?
What does the prefix ご in this sentence mean?
How to read 火日参拾月参
Is the お used at the start of the sentence a honorific お?
Can から be omitted in てから?
Xに捕まる　vs　Xに捕まえられる
Unknown Japanese saying: 世に孵ることを拒む卵はなく、　芽吹くことを拒む種子もあり得ない
What does the ~たものか mean in どうやって彼らを誤魔化したものか?
What's the difference between 時間がいる and 時間が必要?
Meaning of ガッといく
What does レベルが高い mean in this context?
Meaning of 彼女だけは普段と変わらなかった
Meaning of 生命線を守る in the following sentence
How do I pronounce/Translate this last name: マッキェネン into english?
What is the meaning of 七五三 in the sentence, 七五三のしゃしんです。
Word Order - は and が Particles
What's the meaning of はなに引っ掛ける?
Identical on and kun readings
How would you say “I like to go bowling” and other suru verbs?
How to specify a day and a shop/office/etc. when asking for business hours? [closed]
How do I write “ワンピースは実在する” vertically?
How can 若い時 and ずっと work in this sentence?
に越したことはない vs に越したことないじゃない
What is the etymology of this kanji 厚?
Describe a span of time of 1 or 2 years, without being too literal
whats does あなたわ友達ですか？ means [closed]
comparison between のですから and んだから
What does からか mean?
What does 王室宮内庁を予算ごと回す mean?
Meaning of おまちする
How to read mp3 in Japanese?
Usage of 手伝う and お手伝いをする
Can「確立する」function as an intransitive verb?
Weird Inflection -されていかん
understanding ある in と言うだけある
Expressing doing something in case of/as a precaution for some other possible occurrence
Why 112 is pronounced as ippyakujuuni instead of ichihyakujuuni?
来た2日後に vs 来て2日後に vs 来てから2日後に
Grammar and use of すればしただけ
Relationship between radicals, components, kanji and words
How to know all _kanji_ with certain radical?
Is it possible to express the difference between the English phrases “I don't want to do that” and “I don't want to have to do that”?
Order of a dialogue with と言えば and となって
Etymology of bateren (伴天連 / 破天連)
誕生パーティーに行けたらいいのに vs 誕生パーティーに行ったらいいのに
Meaning of く も in this sentence
Does しかたない imply disappointment?
How many distinct kanjis or words are there in a typical modern Japanese book?
「というのは」と「というのも」の違いは何ですか。
Using the particle と or the particle に with あう
The kanji for “YOMI”: Word For “Reading the Mind of Your Opponent” [closed]
What is the etymology of kanji 関?
Meaning of the construction ～て〇〇年／〇〇か月になります
Multiple words with same definition
Which part is the tail in 人参{にんじん}の尻尾{しっぽ}
Question on として in this sentence
Being caught in an act?
Meaning of 寒くなる vs. 寒くなっています
How to say “I let him do X to me”?
Why is the meaning of kanji 閑 “leisure”?
Use of 'wo' in “umi no naka wo oyogu yo” [duplicate]
不味い versus 嫌い with food
Meaning of 折らで in a haiku
“外で遊びに行く” vs “外へ遊びに行く”
Is 選ばれし者 a grammatically correct translation of “The Chosen One”?
Does the phrase がんばする makes sense?
Usage of か after a clause?
Difference between 七転び八起き and 七転八起
What are the guidelines of omitting particles?
The meaning of 以外 in this sentence? [closed]
Spaces and end of sentences in まんが
Pronunciation of 年
using の with と,で, から, まで
何を食べても美味しくない vs 魚を食べてもいい
Polite form of apology with tense form?
Translating あくまで一応ですけどね
Saying お疲れ様でした to teacher at the end of a lesson?
Difference between よる/よって
What does the で do in this phrase?
Is the で in という理由だけで a form of だ or the instrumental particle?
Is しかたない a characteristically Japanese response to a question?
Meaning of オレンジ in オレンジは右側です [closed]
How is しかたない an opinion about a product feature?
What is the difference between 「どんぶり」and「ちゃわん」
meaning of なく followed by なし
Etymology of ～かもしれません
Difference between 損害 and 被害
Subject and extra information
Value-augmenting なれば
passive ambiguity in this sentence
why has 当り前 been translated as “must-be” here?
~ことがある for more than one thing
Meaning of メリ and メリ子
o'clock kanji pronunciation 時
Trying to understand what does 見え mean in this short sentence
Verb + そうです　to express the past
Difference between 泊まる and 留まる [duplicate]
How to write こたえ: 答え or 答?
Clarification on comparative constructions is needed
Difference between の間で and 間で?
Negative adjectives + です vs adjective + ではありません
おつかれさまでした vs おつかれさまです
Confused on verb conjuation U-verbs ru-verbs or godan ones?
What does こと mean in this context? 2
Confused with より
量、数 and 数量 (amount). Is there any of them that is used far more frequently than the other ones or are they pretty much equally used?
Contraction of ~ている
How to use 彼 and 彼女?
What does ことがないように express?
The use of たち in the sentence [duplicate]
Verb form before そうです
Omission of the particle は
Meaning of「残るは」in a sentence
About the affix ごっこ
What is grammar of strange form of やめる verb like “やめたくなったら”?
What is the difference between なさいます and いたします?
と particle in the subject of a sentence
Unvoiced vowels in katakana: special case?
乗り換え verbal noun does not take -する, instead 乗り換える?
Is 訴え連日通い a single word? If not, why no particles in between?
Why is まじる a 五段 verb?
Are words always pronounced as spelled?
What does どうかじゃない mean?
Are there differences in meaning or formality in the various readings of 家中?
に to indicate the role you want something to play?
plain form + bakari vs. te form + bakari
Is there a difference between 行くった and 行った or is the first one grammatically wrong?
Difference between も and だって
まだほかにもある what is the subject in this sentence?
What does 話 mean here?
What does チビバージョンは草 sentence means?
どんな危険 vs どんな危険も Confusion
Are 修飾語 in Japanese different from 'modifier' in English?
Is やなこった just 嫌な子, or does it mean something as a whole?
どれ as an attribute
Is there any difference between 速さand 速度?
What does the letter 'P' at the end of an author's pseudonym mean?
Why are phone calls cylindrical?
Different ways to say several
Nuance between AやB and AやBなど?
grammar - 接続 of compound words ending with verb-ず
Is this phrase gramatically correct? [closed]
無謀とも言えるその計画に (Reckless can be said that plan to)
Which sentence is grammatically correct?
Can ずつ be used along with 間?
Does 特別に戦 mean 'special battle' or 'specially battle'?
What are the origins of the words ぐう、ちょき、ぱあ in the context of じゃんけん？
How to Read 醤玉子?
Where can I learn the proper way to answer to an professional email?
「彼は瞳をキラキラさせながら言った。」 Why させながら, and not しながら?
Is there any unicode characters that is same as a kanji image?
When should I use どんどん and when should I use 速く?
忙しいところ vs 忙しいなか
What would be the best way to respond to thank you and a compliment at the same time?
ものだ expressing ambiguous emotions/concern?
What word class is 恥ずべき?
Why is there a difference between the hand drawn 道 and the pc font one?
How to say “to work for”
ではない in Relative Clauses
Dealing with paragraphs when translating Japanese literature
は vs.では in こんなうるさいところでは勉強ができません
Is the adjective インディペンデント actually used as an adjective?
The meaning of けど [duplicate]
Why is the State of the Union Address Called 一般教書演説?
Confusion on use of だった with sentence that uses nominalized verb
Japanese grammar "てある” [duplicate]
Do 最愛の人 and ダーリン mean the same thing?
Meaning of フレンチでは in 知る人ぞ知るシェフ
Confusion about 大したこと(で)(は)ない
What is the meaning of なのか in this sentence?
Difference between おじいさん and おじさん
「元気をなくすとは」meaning?
Is it acceptable to use あなた when referring to a superior indirectly?
expressing opinion adding し at the end of adjective
Difference between 禁 and 禁止 (and 禁じる/禁止する)
Why are there very few non-する gairaigo verbs in Japanese?
What's the difference between 運用 and 操作?
Use of から rather than に in 真っ昼間から
Can I use English in place of katakana?
What's the word regularly used to describe “working from home”?
“Robust Software” in Japanese
The difference between 'no naka' and 'no naka ni'
Why can には here ONLY mean にとっては?
鶴の一声 — Origin and context?
Why is ostracism called 村八分【むらはちぶ】?
What does ドジしたな mean?
What is the difference between はみ出す and はみ出る?
か after short forms
Can anyone help me understand ’箱物’ in this sentence？
What's the exact meaning of とする in this sentence?
-くて, -なくて forms of adjectives
What is the difference between 旅する and 旅行する?
What does てくる mean when used with 選ぶ?
Grammar vs. politeness: a tale of two evils
is there a hidden meaning to それとなく?
後に【あとに】or【のちに】?
こんな、そんな、あんな、どんな + na-adjectives
Explanation for 'noun + な + ので', is 'ので' still a 接続助詞 here?
Why is a verb before a 格助詞 called 連体形?
What does してて mean?
私には versus 私は - difference in nuance?
When to use te form and past tense
What is the difference between 検事 and 検察官?
How to say “Hybrid” in Japanese. Or is there a word for it? [closed]
Grammar explanation for '…ことができなくなります'
What does ように mean here?
Meaning of 言うではありませんか
What is the etymology of 料理?
What does ふぬぬぬぬ mean?
Help understanding the use of あります
Why お寺 but 神社 (not ご神社)?
What is the meanings of kanji 手 when it's part of a compound word?
Appropriate “No, I don't have” response to “お持ちでしょうか”
How to write a sentence with several verbs associated to different objects?
What does × mean in titles of Japanese TV shows and comics? [duplicate]
A question about the kanji 畀?
Stroke counts for 子 and the 辶 radical?
Past tense …でする vs. past tense copula です　confusion
Express the idea of something being suitable for something: “a Baby friendly hotel”
は vs のほうが : when to use each one
What is the meaning of the radical 手 as a part of character?
I have porridge for breakfast
「を」Vてある - Typo or actual construction?
１日 reading, yet again
Meaning of 以上 and 以下 according to water depth level
AはBと同じくらい… comparative construction
When I need to say “I develop software” in Japanese which verb is the appropriate one?
単語 ヤバイ origin and comparaision
Where does ドンピシャ come from?
How do I say Every/Each “Noun”
How should I call someone in street?
For body: 身体 or 体
What is the story behind “peach kanji” 桃?
How to say “I read the book again yesterday” in Japanese?
Regarding chau and cha contractions, what happens in -って and -んで cases?
Please help with deciphering the meaning of this sentence
What is the あと in 努めてあとを濁さないように
What is the etymology of 選手 (senshu)?
What does 黒瞳 means?
The grammar of Xには我慢がならん
Is 黙って言うこと a set phrase?
Can が be interchanged with を？
What is available amount of が in one sentence?
Is it common for Kanjis to have several pronunciations like for 乾?
「卒業して以来」と「卒業した以来」どちらが正しいですか？
Meaning of 足に来る in sexual joke
“My age is a secret”
What's the grammar behind 飲み足りる?
Nominalized verb and connection to noun after が particle
How to interpret 同情 in the following sentence
Can someone help me translate this sentence? [closed]
Word order in a comparative sentence
の: nominalization vs. 'the one that…'
What is the function of のは in this question?
what is the meaning of いやがらずに?
Can you use the が particle in a sentence asking 何ですか?
け as a contraction of 来い [duplicate]
What does なら mean in this sentence? I don't understand
What is the etymology of Honshū (本州)?
しか[subject]がない meaning
Is there a difference between 「まだ食べたり、飲んだりしています。」and 「まだ食べたり、飲んでいたりします。」?
Kanji of そそっかしい
“Normal” handwritten Japanese
もう and けど in one sentence
What is ふつ here?
How to translate nominalised adjectives from Japanese to English (e.g. スイスがきれいなこと)
What is the difference between “に”  and “には”?
“と” plus a clause — but what is it doing? [duplicate]
Statistics of on-yomi phonemes/syllables
What is the etymology of shamisen (三味線)?
What's で's meaning in this sentence
Variations in polite negations: ありません, ないです, -ません
Uncertain event + ならissue
What are the differences between 芸術 (geijutsu) and 美術 (bijutsu)?
What does “なぜって‥‥‥ それは おかあさんには ないしょなの” mean?
Would a japanese say “このジョルノジョバーナには夢がある”?
Equivalent of saying Bruh, man, dude, etc. in Japanese?
How do I ask my friend to recommend me a manga? [closed]
What's the difference between “doko ga … desu ka” and “… doko ni arimasu ka”?
What is the difference between “をいかがですか” and “はいかがですか”?
What is the standard size of a kanji as written by a standard caligraphy brush
A verb ちがう and its indicators
ここからさきにはゆかせぬ sentence breakdown
Kanji size and proportions
～ば vs ～ていれば in counterfactual conditionals
okay to use 男／女 as opposed to 男／女の人 to refer to yourself?
Are there many occurrences of elongated syllables throughout the language?
How to know if ～たら is hypothetical or temporal
What are the stereotypical qualities of a gaijin trying to speak/write Japanese to a Japanese person?
What do all the different たすける's mean?
How can I write things like “Does this dictionary use a different database from Jisho.org's?”
Using 言う and ても to mean “even if you say”
Understanding of 働かせ in the sentence below
の and のです. What’s their semantic purpose and meaning?
Is there a general/default word for “to wear”?
The particle へ in 山へ面している
What is the meaning of カックン in the following sentence?
Use of 当たる in this sentence
i-adjective modifying ある (eg 強くありたい)
what does「デカいヤマをあてること」mean?
What does (name) でした mean? [duplicate]
Why using です in katakana?
さむいのはきらい vs さむいがきらい
Understanding 絵に描いたように
What does he say to his teacher?
whats the difference between て言ってた vs ように言われた
Understanding ある
How is とかいた being used in this sentence?
What is the difference between ではありません and 〜くない
Understanding ように
difference of 湿らす vs 潤す
What is the difference between 中国人, 華人, 漢人, and 唐人?
Utilising というのは
What's the function of に here?
What is the difference between ~たい and ~ことを望む?
Meaning of 有難 with missing ending
「だが」は単なる「が」に言い換えることができますか
Difference between 尽くす and きれる
Can みたい refer to a clause in the past?
Using のうちに to construct an adverb
Is there any clear distinction in Japanese for the words 拉致 and 誘拐?
Using まで together with a negative connotation 帰らないつもりです in a sentence
Combining multiple verbs
Any differences between 領収書 and 受領書?
どうして「〜たいくらいだ」には「くらい」が出るのですか
What does 気が遠くなるほど mean?
What does 心得もない　mean in the following centext?
I can't identify this kanji ( kanji 当ても)
Grammar: te + verb + shimashita
Confusing sentence (~た次第です, passive speech as active, etc)
られる noun phrase
Please Explain the Grammer Pattern and use of 見てんの [duplicate]
What is the upper radical in the Kanji 悪?
Question about the particular use of 'か'
How to express “Stone Master” as a compliment
How can I express “a particular/a certain” thing?
How to state facts in Japanese?
Why can「うんざり」be used directly preceding「だ」/「です」?
What`s the meaning of のを and だと in this text?
What does おとくな　けいじばん mean?
What does とみる mean here?
How do 確認したところ and 全長15メートルほどの古い木造船が見つかり relate here?
What is the proper way of writing the first stroke of 言? [duplicate]
Identifying the meaning of こんなこと in this context
Feminine speech: no だ before よ
What is 「や」doing in these sentences?
Meaning of いって来た in this sentence
「強さを、孤独を、知る者たち。それは、変わることは無く。」 How do I interpret 変わる here?
Is その彼女/彼 correct in speech?
に or の in this sentence, also any recomendations on where to post practice sentences?
Metaphorical meaning of 買う
Unsure of meaning for sentence found in article about an automatic train test
Why we should use “を” instead of “に” when talking about a place?
Is it possible to omit "電話を'
What does 囚えよう mean in this book?
How to understand ひと断ちにする
Why are there many kanji that are read and mean the same?
Are there more terms similar to 上京 or 来阪 for going to Japanese cities?
Aoi aoi morideshita - sentence structure explanation
What's the difference between「どこかで犯人を見ましたか」and「犯人をどこかで見ましたか」?
Verb woes; two or three questions
たら followed by question mark [duplicate]
Usage of 断然 as の-adjective?
How to express future times?
What nouns work with やめる when you quit doing something
Kochira vs Konohito and Donohito vs Donata
How can I express sentences like “How long is …” or “How old is … ” or “How convenient is …” etc.?
What is the difference between 試合 and 競技?
What is the difference between 神社, お寺 and お宮?
Does the second stroke of ち have a break in it when handwritten?
How do we spell this word in japanese? [closed]
Does 両親ともに健在とは限らない。mean “Both of my parents aren't alive.”?
What would the English translation of this causative てもらう sentence be?
Meaning of a pattern “AといえばAにも見える”
What is a diference between いく and あるく?
What is a 感謝の夕べ and is it free to attend?
What does には mean in this case?
How to understand い adjective + ある？ What is ある doing here
Meaning of に in もう彼女に抵抗の余地はないのでしょうか？
なんてね interpretation
understanding であると同時に construction
What's the difference between complaints 不満 不平 文句?
When is 分 read ぶ instead of ぶん
What is the right word for existential goal?
How to read 死神界?
What's the polite way to invite someone to do something?
Appropriate word for “fellow”
Grammaticality of two kanji verbs without their conjugating part
Translation for [まどろみの中で]
How can I say “self-love” in Japanase?
How do I read 殺す者?
What is the difference between “みだらな格好” and “あられもない格好?”
Is “eventide” a correct word for the kanji 汐
How is ように used in here? [duplicate]
What is used more in Japan for numbers? Kanji or Hiragana?
Difference between N1はN2より＋Adj and N1よりN2のほうが+Adj
what is the meaning of this sfx/onomatopoeia? ダシーン
Could this be some sort of typo
おすすめ品 on Doujins in Akihabara
How to politely and indirectly tell someone they forgot to do something?
Translation for [竜とは逃げぬものなれば]
など無いも同然だった in this scene
What is the correct romaji/kanji for a phrase that sounds like “fui cabaru”
無念 - kanjis say “no wish”, but meaning is “regret”? Why?
Understanding ７７の海岸のうち６０％で、
The difference between 最高 and 一番いい
Meaning of たんか when used in a sentence or phrase?
A question regarding に従って
What is the difference between 隠す and 覆う?
Meaning of verb + かなど in article
Interpretation and some questions about NHK article
What is the meaning of '育てられ方’ in this sentence?
Ambiguous use of 奥？
Meaning of 字 in this context
Directionality of にも
Question about interpreting an NHK news article, 子どもに話しかけたり
I don't understand why 差し支える means what it means
What is the grammatical function of と in the sentence 同じ心を持った人は二人といない
All we can できるだけは できるのは
Why is 何が used to mean “sorry for what?” instead of 何で?
Word-order with の- and に- particles
Understanding 手のつけようがない
Help with the line 誰かと似ていて放っておいても行ってしまいそうだからね
Help translating Japanese postcard [closed]
～てみると in this context
How to choose between ずにはいられない・てならない・ざるを得ない・てたまらない when saying “Can't help but…”
what's the meaning of 打上花火?
Is hiragana equal to lower case and katakana equal to upper case when comparing Japanese and western writing systems?
Plain Verb followed by がよい
Meaning of 首を傾げてしまいたくなる
How do I say this sentence informally?
Meaning of ハチ代(hachidai?) [closed]
Confusing use of くらい and の in this dictionary definition
What is a good translation for 不平不満を持ちながもらしょうがなく乗り切ることを言います。?
What でな means here?
What does「のには」mean in this sentence?
What is the function of で in こうした家族の変化で、何が起きているのか?
Can an adjective come after a verb?
What is the meaning (or the grammatical role) of に in 十分に?
いやこうしている in this statement
follow up on: Can ような mean “To make”?
ちから, たわめる and を-Particle
Is there a slang equivalent to “It's on!” [closed]
Parsing the sentence 書く人物の顔が頭に入っていないと効果はない
What is the difference between 適切、適当 and 適宜?
Can a clause ending in ば be translated to “when”?
What does ぉ character mean in のぉ?
Difference between “じゃない” and “ない”
What does “hennaiatsu” actually mean?
Why are the names of plants and animals often written in katakana?
Passive referring to one's own actions
How to translate 動詞+かのような+名詞?
What does this sentence mean?
fragmented statement and いつの世も
Meaning of こった in Xと、こったのもあった
Do words differing only in the voicedness of consonants act as functionally homophonous?
What semantic role does ⺉/刀(sword/cut) tend to have in Kanji?
Why are Japanese fonts different to Chinese?
How did スマート (from 'smart' in English) shift to mean 'slim, trim' and 'stylish'?
Difference between だろう and かな
What does 今日という日 mean?
あわせて at the beginning of a sentence
Dictionary form to ask if someone wants something
What's the difference between these two names?
Can 風が強く also refer to disruptive behavior rather than a strong wind?
What are the differences between 真ん中, 中心 and 中央?
喪中 dialogue in incense commercial
掘り下げなかったであろう　in this sentence
How should I select what first-person pronoun to use?
大恋愛の末に結ばれるわけではないから、アバタもエクボということはありえなかった。先行するのは条件である。 [closed]
Real meaning of やがて
What does Ukiyo (浮世) mean?
how to join negative sentence in japanese
How to express the subjunctive mood in Japanese
Usage of the particle に
Can you use 好き about someone else's feelings?
Can you slightly switch up the word order of this sentence? [duplicate]
When I go to Japan to study abroad, can I write my name in kanji?
What does ここじゃ何だ means in this sentence?
これまでだって似たようなものだった in this sentence
How can one say “Where are you from from”?
Why is のに being used here?
Can somebody explain the various words and combinations thereof used for thanking?
X (affirmative) より仕方がない and alternatives
あなたはそれでよいのです what/how does the でよい bit here work?
Why is “でしょう” the norm in weather forecasts?
Is “爿” a 略字--if so, how is it pronounced/written normally?
What しとっても means here?
How to express that somebody apologized on behalf of somebody else
Meaning of 鳥さえ in the song ウィンターワンダーランド
How to say “person A is in a particular place” in japanese
Other uses of 五分 and understanding にする
Why is “移民” labelled as a sensitive word in the dictionary? (in relation with or without the history behind the word)
Meaning of 名前が名前だし, 受けでも狙え and ツッコミ
Do native speakers pronounce long vowels えい or おう as one long vowel, or two different vowels?
Changing を to は in negative statements
Who would あやつ reffer to in this context and other considerations
Difference between たっぷり and たくさん?
What does「ごとが」mean?
Verb past tense [duplicate]
is “と” always needed for when saying ”with?"
Use of っ in けっこうです (kekko desu) [duplicate]
Can polite and casual Japanese be combined?
What is the correct verb for “packing up?”
What does te form of verbs mean in these two sentences?
Trying to understand this tweet
Can 章 be used to mean “story arc”'?
Questions on an 1840's text: Battle at Yamaki Palace 治承四年八月中句右兵衞佐頼朝公
Ending a sentence with さ
今日本語習ってるんですが、この質問どうやって答えるん？
Which form of 終わる should I use here?
How is な used here?
Sexual joke/pun with メスブタ and オスブタ
Meaning of 足 and ブラ下げる
What does ミラー and 光が飛んで mean in this passage?
Can なら be used as “rather than do…” by itself, without くらい？
Basing on~ the differences of these similar meaning words
What is the correct usage of 承知しました, 了解です and かしこまりました, the more formal forms of 分かる?
The difference between が and を with the potential form of a verb
Translating “(action X) as (event Y)” - what grammatical structure fits best? (line in a song)
What is the correct reading of 血泡?
が and に interchangeability and difference in meaning
Is there a reason why 嚥 (swallow -deglutition) and 燕 (swallow -bird) are similar like in English?
Difference Between かなり～ and 結構～ as Adverbs
Saying “It's the principle of the matter”
Usage of だけ and しか
貸してあげる、貸してもらう　USAGES
How did the on-readings with -チ appear?
Difference between 会う and 集まる
How to say “Next 'ANY_DAY_OF_THE_WEEK'”?
Trouble understanding this small review
Difference in nuance between 元気 and 丈夫?
How is readability measured in Japanese?
魅力的って言われてもお前だって困る in this context
そうです or そうでした for sentences that end with でしたか
Japanese term for morning office mantra ritual
Which is the difference between 詳しい and 細かい？
「んだって」と「って」どう違いますか。
What does the の particle do in relation to verbs?
Is that drawing in japanese? if so, can you please tell me what it says? [closed]
Meaning of the name Moki [closed]
Why is particle で used instead of particle と in 家族で出かける (Kazoku de dekakeru)?
what's the difference between 話をする and 話す?
How are Japanese dictionaries organized?
What is the significance of number 8 (八) in Japanese? [duplicate]
Question regarding conjugation of two verbs with a (-たい）ending
What's the reading of 空く?
Do I need to reply in this situation?
Meaning of 盗み飲み
Usage of で after みんな [duplicate]
How are「〇〇の中で」and「〇〇で」different?
Is there a distinction between ‘did“ and ”have done" in Japanese?
Auxiliary verbs in Japanese
non sentence ending な in this comedic conversation
The meaning of the sentence
How to reply to 「いま、すごく幸せです？」
Epizeuxis (畳語法) in Modern Japanese language
説得にかかる vs other ～にかかる expressions
translation question AND what does にただけで mean?
Particle “に” in sentences with “です” and “あります”
Different usage of 普通に?
What do you say when you want to reject a gift without offending anyone?
relative clause with direct object
How to use 生かす to express “you'll do your best”?
Understanding のひとつぐらい in this context
What does this mean to you if you were to see an application named “Japanese 語”?
What is the difference between 派出所 and 交番?
に indicating the source of causation?
Subject confusion or mistranslation of 無難
Use of 間 to talk about a span of time (and connection to the verb)
When can I get away with implying the の possessive?
Particle-と used with numbers: Are these different?
Difficulties with an ambiguous sentence [closed]
Why is 歪形 read as いがみなり?
Why is 雌 also read as メン?
How did 控える come to mean “close to”
What is the usage of these 12 kanjis (彁, 墸,壥,挧,暃,椦,槞,蟐,袮,閠,駲,妛)+18 more in modern Japanese? How to read it?
Trouble with the ambiguous verb 控える
Particle と as a standard of comparison with まで
What does the Verb きれる mean here?
「に」used to signify addition? [duplicate]
Nounに感じる vs. Nounを感じる
past tense na adjective + noun
What does 夢がない said by this speaker mean?
What is the difference between 付ける and くっ付ける?
What does this mean? [closed]
Is wrapping punctuation to a new line ok?
Verb after な-adjective, is it necessary to complete the sentence?
The meaning of 一本 in these lyrics
General conditional (-えば form) expressing something without supposition or back thought?
Confused with verb form ( I am eating vs I was eating, vs I haven’t eaten (yet))
How to say “See you soon” when meeting up with someone
How to handle が and によって in this sort of sentence?
か usage in subordinate clauses
What does 私様 means?
Confusion about reported speech; と言っていました seems to be quite rare
Is there a subtle difference between 少なくても and 少なくとも？
Question about switching formality in a conversation
Why is the Japanese word for Brunei ブルネイ and not ブルナイ?
Is the following sentence correct to decline a invitation?
What's the difference in nuance between multiple 形容詞 (い-adjectives) with and without て-form?
Could you explain why に is used with もらう?
Meaning of 瞳だけはぶっ飛ばない
Possible translations for 殺気
interpretting お前を倒さずして、消滅などできん！
Meaning of 掃き溜める
ってことはどっか Usage in プロってことはどっかスポンサーがついてるってことですよね？
Usage of 引っかかる and double meaning
Difference between 結ぶ and つなぐ
Trouble ないで vs なくて
What does this 数えてみたら mean?
Sentence-ending で in a formal context
What's the difference between にしたら and の上では
The role/meaning of なる in 邪魔をするOrganisationなる”羽虫”
Why is it なくて and not ないで
What does 声かけをしてくれ mean?
How to interprete these は and parse the sentence
Is this enough to make intransitive use of the transitive 設ける?
Why is there を coupled with potential form?
Is おはようです just weird
[…]と言われ、傷つく母親たち - Was the に left out here or is it something else?
Generic Japanese greeting new people?
I need help with those sentences: 「～と思われる」「～ように思われる」
What does 会えたらいいです mean
How do Japanese people think/talk about socioeconomic classes?
What's the purpose of ta-form +りする and how to use it?
サインもらっとけとでも言う - Breaking this phrase down
A better understanding of 分には
What does 中３の２５％　exactly mean?
Interpreting the meaning/nuance of a conversation
How would I write this for a graphic design?
Meaning of しっかり頑張ってこい
When to use ~たい for things such as 食べたい？
What is the meaning of 開発体制?
What is the Japanese equivalent of “mhm”?
ていい after potential form
What's the difference between 母方 and 母系? The same question goes to 父方 and 父系
who 己 is indicating in this sentence
Meaning of 〜の前では in the following sentence
Is there a name for the ending year of an era?
What does 皮膚の裏側 mean?
Why is 高いです acceptable but 高いではあります not acceptable?
Different ways to say “member” (of an association/group etc)
Meaning of 過ぎ in 20日過ぎに海行くんだ
What does フェイスアップからよろしく！ 俺もあがって今日は寝るわー mean?
Which word should I use to express “done” for following someone on instagram?
Usage of そこ with と勘違い
がな and ておろうな at the end of sentence parts
How to say that an article is published (in a newspaper, blog, etc)
Is this translation very loose for the word 生き甲斐?
Use of ある with animate subject
Why is a blackboard called 黒板, but a whiteboard is not called 白板?
What is the difference in usage between これはXです and Xはこれです?
unamed subject in this conversation and use of ~のに… in this sentence
What does いちいちパスタ mean in this sentence?
What is the meaning of こう見えて in this sentence?
Differentiating between “search in” and “search for” in Japanese
used of と侮る in these sentence and ~と侮る vs ~を侮る (perhaps related to 知る as well)
How to decide between ている and てます
Why does the word for “surgery” 外科 have the 外 kanji?
Can someone explain what purpose こう and こと are serving in this sentence? and whether my interpretation/translation is somewhat correct?
How do I turn a phrase into an adjective [duplicate]
「守りが甘い[上手]{うわて}」…どういう意味ですか？
When describing location can ある take more than one に?
Usage of になる and こう in this sentence, sentence structure
「私はジョンにラジオを貸した遣りました.」は、違いますか？ [closed]
Is there a semantic difference between 恋しい and こいしい?
Is my name, Yurishiko, a Japanese name?
Both parties in conversation using *kenjougo*?
How do I determine if an indefinite pronoun requires a particle?
Why is ヘッド an embarrassing title?
「って云って下さい」に関する質問
A little clarification about 呼んでくる
use of だとつい…で…… in these sentence
Could Vた-form be an adjective?
What does the 'ga' at the front of 'ga hanasemasu' do?
How to ask “how can I buy this?”
Various meanings of ダブる and its complexities in Japanese (多義詞 例子)
Verb form for titles and section headings
マリーと日本語を勉強 / Studying with Marie. Is this right?
なんだこの「ギャラリー」？ What does he mean by gallery?
JLPT N3 task explanation
The purpose of using 思う with たり
Meaning of 〜しては
On hiragana, romaji and pronunciation
日本語教室 versus 日本語の教室 [duplicate]
What's the meaning of “と言いうるほどに”?
Does 舐めんじゃねぇぞ mean don’t fuck with me?
が following an i-adj
The use and difference between んじゃないかと思った　and　んじゃないかと思う
Is there a name for verbs written as: Katakana+る?
手えふった - what is the "え” here?
Is there a word for “scream” in a musical context?
「AのほうがBより(property)」 vs. 「AはBより(property)」
Meaning of 身, 末 and 仮に
interpreting 私の生徒会に欲しいって会った時から言ってる
How would you describe both “XX is the furthest I have traveled” and “XX is my favorite place?”
Hiragana Unicode Chart has two characters for each [duplicate]
What does the で in 付きで悪い
I need help understanding a phrase: 「盗むとこは盗ませてもらえ」
い adjective + くて + verb
Usage of デーハー in daily life or conversation as 'slang'
Meaning of もひとり at the start of a sentence
Grammatic relationships inside a sentence - parsing
Are those kanas “しい” ? (text found on a banner)
Japanese localization for the common phrase “powered by x”
Various meanings of どうですか?
How can I tell if a name is meant to be masculine? [duplicate]
What is the difference between 〜るも and 〜ても
How to begin a reply to a question?
Nominalized verb without の or こと
use of 単に…だけか in this sentence
What does 通常進行 mean in the context of a two week serialized mangaka job?
Sentence with でできる
Is that how I write my name?
Usage of いっぱい in this sentence
Origin - subtitles
What does 今更何を知ろう mean here?
Soredewa versus Sorekara
Why is particle で used instead of particle と in 家族で出かける (Kazoku de dekakeru)?
meaning of さ after noun?
Question about “接する”
Meaning of noun + のくらい in this sentence
What's the difference between 椅子 and 席?
Deconstruction of “一緒できなくなっちゃって”
What are the common practices for writing Korean names?
What are the common practice of reading names of modern Chinese people?
で as 動作を行うときの様態 vs で as だ
Use of Verbとして in these examples
Appropriate terms for indigenous people
「失敗、エラーの危険と裏腹のものです。」の意味
Why 皮切り is labelled as a sensitive word in the dictionary?
Reading of 管 as in “かん” vs “くだ” and its meaning regarding those two readings
question about the use of に to mark location in this dictionary entry
何だこの中二心に響くサウンドは Does この refer to サウンド? How does に and an intransitive verb work?
How do you say ‘near my house’ [closed]
見事なまでに what does it mean?
Meaning of 鑑定士 in English or French
The etymology of 助っ人
「あまもり」と一段動詞「もれる」
Is the use of 後で fading from usage in Japanese?
Would you say 日系アメリカ人の歴史のポータル or 日系アメリカ人の歴史ポータル?
Can I insert hiragana in words I only know partially how to write?
んです for asking for permission
The difference between 明日何をしますか and 明日どうしますか
How to use 方 correctly
と思います vs. と思っています
Problem with some 縮約形
Allographic Differences of れ
How do you say 'around', as in “Walk around Lake Burley Griffin”
に vs が in 君に欠けているもの
What is the difference between 都市 and 郷?
How do you say “hello” properly in Kyoto?
Why is it necessary to add く in the following なる sentence?
What is the difference between 何だと and 何ですと?
I don't understand how お世話になっております is a valid expression
How do I figure out what the implied subject is?
Usage of the verb 続く in past tense
What are the characteristics of the suffix ～びる?
Opposite of ずにはいられない
How to use 方が良い correctly
Pronunciation Troubles with トラブル and トラブる: Loanwords with both noun and verb ending in ru mora
Logic behind ～く form in the negative form of i-adjectives
How to use '頭を下がる' or '頭が下がる' literally to indicate bowing?
How to interpret 礼にならない and ~にならない in general
Difference between また今度 and 今度また
What is the difference between んだけど、 ですけど 、 けれども
Saying “I have no need for 'that'” ('that = insert any phrase') in three different circumstances and in various degree of politeness
Why is 英語教師 possible but 英語先生 not possible?
Is あわやと思った an idiom? What is the meaning of あわや?
How to say, “I major in computer science” or “I'm studying computer science”?
What is the difference between 「年をとっている人」and 「お年寄り」?
もう治らないと言われた目が見えるようになった。これが奇跡でなくてなんだろう English Translation? [closed]
What does うさ晴らしとばかりに mean in this context?
Iki versus Yuki meaning “bound for”
Any better way to ask “How are you?” instead of “お元気ですか？”
Meaning of 天秤に乗せる
Aozora versus Aoi sora
「浮き彫り」の意味・使い方がよくわからない
Difference between もうひとつの, 別の and ほかの
Does the tense of the final verb ALWAYS dictate the tense of an earlier て form verb?
What is the meaning/grammar behind noun + でいる?
How to say “This is how I do […]”?
Question about “中国”
flexibility of meaning between 恋に破れる vs 血に飽きた
Why do people use the word “くそ”? [duplicate]
Negative (te-form) + しまう
Kanjis to Romajis first letter [closed]
What is the meaning of the slang ～じゃてえ?
JLPT sentence order section [duplicate]
Desconstructing らしくなってきたの
What is the meaning of the phrase “下町職人魂”
Transitive English words becoming intransitive 外来語
Trouble with a small excerpt from Tanizaki's Himitsu
The use of が, は and を in 私は総てを愛している
Nuance of the structure “Verb (stem of negative form) + ざるを得ない” compared to “Verb + しかない”
What are the differences between 望み, 志望, 希望 and 願い?
Difference in sentences (と and に）
Comparing で with にして in 一瞬で and 一瞬にして and in other time words
How can 池仲 be read as 'ikenohata' in the seal 'Ō Ikenohata Jōkin', 大池仲上金? Doesn't 仲 = 'naka'; can it be 'hata'?
Meaning of と in 友蔵が出おくれまいと言いそえた
I do not understand らさん in this sentence
repeated verb in 雪が降りに降っていました [duplicate]
Is this character a そ?
Why is it spelled やっほー instead of やっほう?
Is 「〜られたくない」 in present or past form?
What does そっくり mean in this context?
Use of に in 金色の血に染まる前に
Difference between には…がある and は…がある
Regarding で particle
「しり目に」の意味は何ですか。
is 持てる potential form or continuous tense
Difference between 何て言う意味、何て言うこと、どう言う意味 etc
「です」, what is it really? Is my analysis correct?
俺は考えてみた - Literally translates to I'll think and see?
Blue Hearts song - 英雄にあこがれ - underlying meanings?
What could a phrase like アルコールはダメなんだ possibly mean?
What does もらえる mean in this sentence ?
My Teacher just had a baby, how do I congratulate her
Distinguishing between 'on' and 'above'
Nominalizing particle combos
Meaning of “さっきまで都会風ぶっこいてたんだよ”
Why is 前 in 駅前 read まえ and not ぜん?
Is there a natural Japanese phrase for “your heart’s in the right place”?
What does “ 飲まずにはいられなかった” mean in this sentence? [duplicate]
use of ほどには and くらいには in this sentence
Grammar of プレッシャーに晒される
Does the use of ていたら in the first clause require it in the second?
Two questions about “can”
Should I use と or たら in that case? [duplicate]
Keep doing an action using っぱなし
Meaning of the particle と in this case
How should I translate “驚破という場合に望みては”?
どうして「お聞き遊ばして」が現代語訳では「お吸いなさいまして」になるのか分からない
Complex sentence with 樣
What is the difference between 傾向がある and 傾向にある?
Meaning of A Sentence Using 降り止んだ
The Word ま By Itself
How to make sense of 呪縛から解放されるウソという名の魔法
立ってそばを食べる vs 立ちながらそばを食べる
社会 【しゃかい】 and 世間 【せけん】 — what is the difference?
Can やら be considered a casual substitute for か?
Is there any rule to indicate when “circumstantials” of time can be the topic (marked with は) of the sentence?
What verb conveys the concept of 'visited'?
Time between meetings and use of 久しぶり
に vs で: 映画に見る vs 映画で見る
「～を限りに」 vs「～限りで」
Usage of the Particle で alone and with は
use of たら in this sentence
“対象 Intransitive Verbs”　vs　“原因 Intransitive Verbs” when taking に
How does one say “bye” to a stranger they just met?
Homework translation [closed]
The meaning of んや
「持参の上」の「上」の意味は何ですか。 [duplicate]
“I have become sleepy, because I did not sleep much last night”textbook wrong translation?
Is 休みたいです more polite than 休みたい?
Are there official kanji attached to popular particles?
What does「〜も何も」mean in this context?
Transitive vs Causative Intransitive
Undertstanding sleeping on 板 in the 雪女 story
Why use the kanji 伸 for “no” instead of the hiragana の, and the kanji 手 for “te” instead of the hiragana て?
How do Japanese people use 🅱️-substitution, if at all?
Meaning of ちつまるつきり
How to translate “Fill” (in a form)
ともすれば～・ともすると～: “ a tendency to ~, prone to ~” or “cause and effect”?
Use of particle を with 取り組み and 期待する
Difference between 歩く and 歩いて
Questions about possession phrases
About the coupling of ーてもらう and ーなさい
Interpreting ~が言う方が in this sentence among other things
What is the difference between 不安 and ざわざわ
What does the なさいよ in 気をつけなさいよ mean?
How does one differentiate between future tense (will) and present tense?
What's the difference between 貰えます (moraemasu) and いただけます (itadakemasu)? Which sounds more natural when talking about bags?
desu vs. arimasu (or imasu) when declaring existence
青春とは噓であり、悪である　‐　あり　vs　ある？ [duplicate]
Is the use of 真面目な a modern way to refer to sentimental relationships as “serious” or has it always been standard?
The differences with おちる (落ちる、堕ちる、墜ちる)
ぬ in place of の
Family questions
Does あたかも only add emphasis to a sentence?
Correct way to say “life is a lesson, you learn it when you are through”
Interrupted Dialogue
What does 手のだしょうがなかった mean
What is 「切れ」 in 切れかけの蛍光灯?
Is rōmaji actually used in Japan?
Use of だった in the middle of a sentence
What is a more direct translation of もったいぶっちゃって
What is the difference between 特別 and 特殊?
In 星の王子さま, what is this 六つのとき?
Why the pronunciation of some words is different than their components? [duplicate]
In AてBてもらう does もらう operate on A and B?
湿気る is both godan and ichidan. Are there other verbs like this?
What does かけ mean in こわれかけのオルゴール?
What is the difference between 愛しい【いとしい】 and 愛おしい【いとおしい】?
Can I use いただきます next to another word?
What does やから mean in this sentence?
What is the role of し after the noun?
Need help understanding this sentence: 「30前後とみられる男性が血まみれで死亡しているところが見つかり…」
よう after (negated) short form of verb
Help interpreting a chain of Kanji from manga
Cardinal and intermediate directions
How to express conditional prefernces: “If you like X, I think you will like Y”
use of ときては in this sentence
The real meaning of 辞める
The meaning of しなければならず in this article
尻馬に乗る Have I understood this idiom correctly?
「〜ますし」の文法と意味は何ですか。
What is difference between さえ でも in term of extreme example [closed]
A seemingly strange use of も: 「今度もきつねの言うとおりにしました」
たんですから vs たからなんです
I need help understanding 「虫が止まったみたいな扱いだ。」
What does からと mean in this passage
What does 白紙にかえって探さねばならぬ mean in this context
sentence ending と for third person narrators
How to arrive to the meaning of the kanji tonari 隣 through its components?
Can ~ほうがいいですか be used to ask for recommendations?
Relative clauses modifying a noun: passive voice?
Are there means (formal rules or conventions) of use-mention distinction in Japanese writing?
What is the nuance of か and ね together, e.g. ありませんかね?
How do you say “in time”?
Meaning or Grammatical Function of かき
What is the particle には doing in this sentence?
Still learning Japanese and I need help with this phrase “誰が止めるというの　心が叫んだ声を”
What is the correct counter to translate 'One Piece'?
use of よりなく in this sentence
Question about ている ていた for explaining state for something
difference between 血 and 血液？
What is the difference between 上がります and　増えます
Are に and と interchangeable when used with adverbs?
What does the onomatopoeia ジワリと mean?
How can I tell the reason after the fact in the second part of the sentence
I need help with a Japanese Haiku
What does ダンッ mean?
今しかない!! pronouncation
Meaning of 人 in Japanese internet slang
Asking 'how much is the hotel for one night'
What is the role of particle と in this sentence?
Meaning of とし in this sentence
Grammatical purpose of replacing the ~る to ~れ and ~ろう, how does this affect the tone of voice?
Different pronunciations of 主
Double AのようにBのように , does it mean the following
Adjective-Nominalization さの vs normal usage with な
Is there a gender-specific way of using 先輩 or 後輩?
How to say “even” for the last item in an enumeration?
what's the difference between 理論 and 学説
what's the purpose of '気でいたんだ' in this sentence
What is the subject actually doing in this sentence
What is the difference between 〜ている and 〜中?
unclear designation of それ　in this passage
Can someone explain the grammar in this sentence “もうこれで終わってもいい”
how to make sense of 御用の方は屋上にまで?
What does ともあれ解析-待ちかな～ mean?
Use of て form in a relative clause
Differences between 妊娠 and 受胎
Difference between 防衛相, 防衛大臣 and 国防相
What is the term for special words that don't use standard readings or regular modifications? [duplicate]
Ocha in Hiragana [duplicate]
clause ending ようで clarification
Looking for the correct spelling of “tsundoku” in Japanese [closed]
What are the nuances between くれますか vs くれませんか in terms of requests?
How do you say 'sentence'.
Use of かて as “even”
What is the difference between 清潔 and 清浄
How to create a personal name with kanji
Japanese idiom equivalent to “that ship has sailed”
Sentence structure of 戦争で敵兵になぶりものにされて殺されたんだ
The basis for kanji frequency
Expected sentence in article to use を but が is used instead
Is 去年に grammatical?
Question about 単独
How to interpret the “もの” in どうしたものでしょうか
What is the difference between [何もありません]{なにもありません} and 何もあります?
始める vs 出す vs になる
Who is doing the action in the second sentence?
Question about “ほう” in this context
心配する with implied object
What is the meaning of ー・
What does “本人と似て” mean?
What かってぇ means here? [duplicate]
だろう in question context?
The meaning of ~たことにする
How to say “weeaboo” in Japanese?
How to use と with three or more nouns?
What does this conversation from a novel mean?
What does オシャレ mean?
Another こと usage question
Is this と quotative or conditional?
Kanji for みない　in 調べてみない
Particles equivalent to english 'about'
What is 所があるじゃない in this context？
Why is あすぶ an “out-dated or obsolete” kana usage for 遊ぶ?
Meaning of 何も with なんてない sentence end
sentence structure and extent of quotion in this statement
Why would a Japanese adult be embarrassed to use the word “friends”?
Why is the topic marker often used in negative statements (ではない, ～とは思わない)?
Why で in 今日で最後にしたいです?
How do you translate 作ってみたら in 妹がチーズドックを作ってみたら兄がwwww?
Where does アフレコ come from?
When to use ところ / て+いるところ / た+ところ
ながら sentence sample clarification
What purpose does に serve in set phrases that go after verbs?
Problem with 大きくなって
っつー　at the end of a sentence [duplicate]
What is the meaning of マジで終わっている?
Is there an ambiguity with 初めて in this sentence?
Possible misspeling of 音葉? [closed]
What does chome chome mean?
Ending sentences with “、と。”
Strange use of conditional たら
“nounをnoun(verb stem)” expressions: ie 基準を流れ, 戸惑いを表れ etc
Hajiku 弾くversus Hiku 弾く
Question about 突き挿す
What does “僕の分も君が振ってくれ。” mean?
How to say “I want to talk to you about many things”
What is the meaning of はった when modifying a noun?
Why is 私 a sixth grade kanji?
Understanding the translation of ～てほしいと頼まれました
Is this a strange translation?
Loanwords related to science
The meaning of となった in this context
How to understand 節がある?
かもしれない usage question
Parsing in this sentence, subject incongruity
Meaning of 世界観に入り込む in the following sentence
Confusing sentence using ~わけではなく and other forms
How is the 〒 postal code symbol pronounced?
Using い and な adjectives
Two words from Shinya Shokudou
Naming suffix -氏 (-し) used by an otaku character in anime
Different ways to read out the year
といったら vs. とは - subtle differences?
'mo' and 'demo' pronunciation research
Use of ともちょうだい and speaker consistency
Japanese reports
How Dakuten works with Romaji?
When 大 is read as たい versus だい？
Is there a way to express metaphor in japanese?
How does it translate noun + ni + shiteitanda?
Japanese equivalent for the verb “trigger” meaning to cause something to happen?
What could コエーぞ mean in this context?
What is the meaning of それにつけても?
What would させずにすんだはず mean in the following context
Correct Japanese grammar for “video recording” when in context to length of time
Different nuances of interrogative phrases
i don't understand 一人分
Interpreting this Bus Schedule
一線を画する ambiguity
Japanese equivalent for “Beta” as in software prototype or early release?
Confusing use of ずつ
What does “ばーーーか” mean?
How and when to use 形（かたち、けい、かた）
「〜てすむ」の意味は何ですか。
How do you talk about a boring, repetitive sound?
What is the function of もし？
Using を with verbs?
What is the meaning of 起こし in this sentence?
The meaning of 立派だよ
救えたはずのもの… (lots of unaccounted もの)
Why is しっていません a mistake ? [duplicate]
What is the meaning of ほうで here?
The rules of kanji reading [duplicate]
adjective pronominalization with の
How to interprete this も?
What's the difference between 豪華 and 贅沢?
Word Order: 国で日本語を2カ月勉強しました vs 国で2カ月日本語を勉強しました [duplicate]
Sentence Structure JLPT question 「日本語がかんたんな本」
What is the meaning of どうの?
びりびりに破いた - why they come together
Meaning of 切りかかるなら初手だったね
Trouble with this sentence: 未曽有の被害をもたらした７月の西日本豪雨災害
Are there any words that are longer in kanji than in hiragana?
use 味の感想も聞けるしな and 作りがいがある in this sentence
The difference between へとへと and くたくた
How can one determine the appropriate meaning of 伺う in formal speech?
Is 哲学【てつがく】 the correct word to use when talking about Philosophy in regards to the Major?
How should I write my name with an American first name and Japanese last name?
Difference between である and だ in the written form
Assistance with translation in some lyrics
ながらも followed up by のに
How “So what?” is said in this video? [closed]
Why is the て-form being used before ん？
need help to understand がる/ がっている
Difference between 丸い and 円い
What is the difference between “Doko de benkyou shiteiru no desu ka?” and “Doko de benkyou benkyo shiteimasu ka?”
Meaning of ほうなんで?
Want to say something like “I will work here in the replacement of XYZ-さん”
What is the difference between 美人 and 佳人?
use of と in 無用の長物と化した
Possible meaning of キズ(kizu)
ambiguity of どうこう
Label on the substance bag in the tv show maniac
Handwritten kana that looks like ヤダ, but I can't find ヤダ in a dictionary
Trouble with this passage
Pitch accent variations within giongo words like ふわふわ
What is the meaning of 近いほうが here?
What does どうなちきつたんだよオ mean?
Meaning of 呑む in causative form
Question about the phrase 心配いりません
Subject ambiguity in 大阪府の警察は、樋田容疑者を警察署から逃げた容疑で調べていますが、何も話していません。
Which is the most popular non-Jōyō kanji?
Why Japanese verb has so many forms?
Particles and noun-modifiers
Use of 予定 at the end of sentence [duplicate]
I don't understand this passage
Understanding the usage of もう一歩といったところだ
The role of か when 行こうか is not a question
How to make requests not to do something in reported speech? [duplicate]
In Japanese, what's the difference between 全て (subete) and 有らゆる (arayuru)
Meaning of もらってもらう?
Trouble with “不安と、病名がちゃんとあったことに少し安心して涙が止まらない”
くれる: A verb of volition?
What's the difference between 海洋 and 大洋?
Can you use そうだ (appear, seem) with kango adjectival nouns?
What's the meaning of these kanji in this image still? [closed]
Meaning of 利く and examples
Difference between 貝 and 貝殻
Understanding Susumu Kuno's example of misuse of 自分
Does any Japanese dialect use the schwa?
Is it possible to “be confident in” without using 信 and implying having “faith”?
How is 「何者でもなくなった」 translated?
Distinction of using を/に instead of が
Meaning of “ためし” in this sentence [duplicate]
するだろうなWill or Would?
Am I hearing the pitch accent of “家具売り場” correctly?
Changing verb subject after a favor - Is this a reliable pattern?
To what extent can a noun be used as an adverb?
What does としたほか mean in this context?
Is it grammatically correct to use もし and/or 〜ば form along with the 〜たい form to convey desire in a conditional clause?
What is the difference between に and と with 間違われる?
Bridging tsu (“つ”) when joining two kanji
Small Words on the side of Big Words. Is it a manga thing or a japanese thing?
Does プレゼント have both English meanings or just the “gift” meaning?
na-adjectives in different tenses. これは真面目だった人です。
When do I use which word for admission? 入場 vs. 入所
I am looking for cursive forms of the kanji for 'zu'. It means a drawing. Thanks. [closed]
Understanding difficult handwriting/calligraphy [closed]
Under what scenarios can you use transitive verbs with に？
Why isn't 笑う usually used with に particle?
How to interpret 感じの情報 in this sentence
Noun+に and intransitive verbs clarification
Did 手取り足取り come from Portuguese?
Using two を particles in one sentence
Using 初めて with the passive
Is it possible to write Japanese in pure Kanji?
Meaning of ツッコミどころ多すぎ?
Does マンション also mean “luxurious house” in Japanese?
Examples of when to use ではありません、ではない、じゃありません、 じゃない
I'm wrestling with the first って in 借金が雪だるま式に増えてってるって噂だよ
What is the correct way to attach 〜そう to the start of a noun? [duplicate]
How to say “It was my first time canoeing”
I don't understand how 雇い入れる is different from 雇う
Meaning of 焦る in this sentence
Does ガス also mean gasoline in Japanese?
Meaning of 場所あけて in the following sentence
What's the difference between 意外にも and 意外に?
What is the difference between 無感動 and 無関心?
Does 考えさせられる小説 make sense?
How to know how to translate -たり form
“に(して)” and the “for (purpose) に” clarification
Nuance of Noun-verb　(を）入る/入れる
Adjective-No in a Question format?
How to say that something is like nothing or not comparable to other?
How to pronounce ❛ た❜？
Sentence in the present tense when the text is in the past tense?
What does “fukugen” really mean?
How are numbers pronounced in (movie) titles? (i.e. ジョーズ３)
What does や after someone's name mean exactly?
How to parse 政治家にあるまじき発言?
Meaning of sentences with 続ける when paired with に
some questions on られる form
Using だ as a Verb
How to construct a name for fictional Kami?
How does ていた (from ている) compare to てくる and てきた？
What does バリ and ピタ mean?
(伊曾保物語) 鼠と猫の事 comprehension problem “只、人は、愚にして、他人にぬかれたるにしくはなし”
Proper use of とか and そして in a sentence
Need help with contradictory sentence
Usage of を when meaning along/through
Which verbal tense is used in the sentence ビールを飲んで運転するのはダメだ。 for the verb nomu?
Can “suru” be also added to japanese verbs?
the meaning of で in 私は学生で友だちはいしゃです。 [duplicate]
「期間」と「時期」の違いは何ですか
past tense na adjective + noun
Is there a meaning to the 6 stroke component that 恵, 専, and 敷 share?
Meaning of その in particular phrases
How to say, “Where is the best izakaya close by to here?”
Does だけ necessarily carry a negative connotation?
What is the difference between 設問 and 質問?
「表{おもて}」、「表面」、「外観」の違い
Meaning of 然 in conjunctions and other grammatical words
Is there a list of official valid loanwords or they are adapted on the fly from their original languages?
How do you express that you are playing a game?
Usage of repeated「として」
clause ending 分
Regarding がある/のある
Which language レシート is adapted from?
Referring to Korean people as an ethnic group and not as political entities?
Use of “equals” or “not equal to” in Japanese in software or math context? [duplicate]
Are both of these correct sentences: 「ここに住所を書いてくださいますか？」「ここに住所を書いてくださいませんか？」？
あなたの仕事なんですか？Anata no shigoto nan desu ka? Is this correct grammatically?
衰えるという言葉の由来は何ですか?
How to interpret 分 in the following passage
What does the kana 「し」 do in this phrase?
Which ばっか is used in the following passage?
Different pitch accent patterns of もっとも?
Using the を particle correctly
んがため vs. べく help
I’m confused about the sentence 「何も悪い事は聞いた事がありません」
Different ways to translate “Pain is the gateway to growth,”?
Understanding the meaning of 事情がわって
-ています / present continuous form not used in habitual action
How do adverbs change when changing くれる to もらう?
How many ways to say father are there in japanese?
I could use help with the finer nuances of 節、柄、and 様。
what's the difference between 試験する and 受験する?
その方法までは解読できません the role of まで and the meaning of the entire line
“~Ni” or “~De”?
Differentiating between the many words for bullying, teasing and tormenting
What does “チョーイミシンッ” mean?
What’s the difference between 「長」,「長い」and「長く」？
Could someone please check if this translation is accurate? [closed]
What is the full expression of hajimemashite / 始めまして?
Is this a correct use of 〜ことになる?
Too many ni particles in one sentence?
誰はしました。Who did it?
Use of ため in the next sentence [duplicate]
Can any nationality be expressed by adding + jin to the country name?
Need help translating and understanding this sentence 「家に帰ってねたほうがいいですよ。」
Fully understanding the difference between もう and －たことがある
Question about the usage of ーたり [duplicate]
Convert Japanese Style English Font to Normal(?) English Font [closed]
Why is する used with things like 匂い・ネックレス・イヤリング?
What does かは mean?
Meaning of ようになり
Does 「来ていません」mean “hasn’t come” or “isn’t coming”? Or both?
Are「これから」 and 「今から」 interchangeable？
ように思う what is the exact meaning?
書類や資料などの内容の引用について
What's the original Japanese word for door, other than the loanword ドア?
「てほしい」の使い方を教えてください
Best translation of “subtle”?
Use of ～ても but what follows ～ is obvious rather than contrary to expectations
What's the difference between particles と and も？
Does 「静かではなければいけない」mean “must be quiet”?
ながら used with 中 and を used with だ
し grammarの使い方を教えてください
Formality and usage of といった
How do you say “She looks good in everything” in Japanese
Why/when is である required for na-adjectives in grammar forms?
How to interpret “一日の楽しみ”
お願いをする あの子たち relative clause meaning
Difference between Okinawan and Yaeyama language
Can 趣味{しゅみ} be used with a verb?
How to understand 態度を片付け
ビル (biru) or 建物 (tatemono) as a translation for 'building' in Japanese?
Use of も in 一緒に写真を撮ってもいいですか？
Literal meaning of 去場 (Saruba) [closed]
What is the more natural way of saying: “I will be busy this Friday.”
How to pronounce noun compounds
Relationship between Respect and Politeness in Japanese
いかなきゃ vs いかなきゃいけない
How to say “turns out”
How to interpret “彼女が複数人いるような男”
Is にとって　often shortened to に　in spoken, colloquial Japanese?
Meaning of 日本をはじめ and the mystery of the missing particle
A question about the usage of ては and ても
Origin of expression ~てならない?
double て verb. please help [duplicate]
What is the difference between 役割 & 業務タイトル?
Difference between た／ている／plain form + とき
Why is 五日前 correct but 五日間前　not?
Use of “いかん” in the following sentences
Can I link a sentence ending in です with a ます sentence?
How to use 全体 correctly
use of “納めはしても” in this statement
い Pronunciations
A sentence's meaning
When to use words derived from foreign words or the native words for the same things?
Why are equal signs used to substitute an English hyphen?
Signing a birthday card
Differentiate a cause from a succession of terms in a sentence using ～くて / で
How do you describe something “spicy”?
Clarifying the purpose of から at the end of that sentence
Why would you use 見えます instead of 見ます?
What is the nuance of “悲しいと思います”?
unclear target of negation of にならない
Difference : がいます or います
Nuance of ないようにしないと and a potential relative clause
Difference with and without は
Meanings of 可愛くない
Use of ～ほど～物(は/も)ない
In 上旬・中旬・下旬, why is 上 the start and 下 the end of the month?
気をっけて - Why the small っ? [closed]
ほうが　without より、いい
Why is ひつよう considered a な adjective?
Need help reading old hand-written japanese
Prolonged sounds in place of an を
Difference between だけ and なら
What common words are written one way - but almost always pronounced a different way? (eg. 言う is generally spoken as 「ゆう」)
Meaning of 奴 in this context
Perspective of “億劫にならない” in this statement
What's the difference between てform+行くand てform+いる?
using wa or ga. about particles [duplicate]
Can one create the word YAMA DO? [closed]
Meaning of 「にならない」
中(なか) vs 中(ちゅう) [closed]
Whats the に doing in the next sentence?
Pronouncing さ and ざ [duplicate]
I want to know the difference between ここに and ここは
Translation attempt ; didn't quite understand the writer's コーヒーを一杯飲んだつもりで
How to say “Contact Me” for email
breakdown of 誰もが納得するかたちで
What does 弟は友だちの大きいくるまで学校に行きます properly translate to?
I need help analyzing the phrase 発音上の
Can two clauses joined by masu-stem form have an reason-action relationship?
Meaning of 上がりくる
Use of を with 進める
毎度お前にばかり- you always do or I always do?
What does すまなく思うが mean?
How to interprete this ある もの?
What is the meaning of うが? [closed]
What is the subtext of this situation?
What's the difference between そうです and そうでしょう?
What is the word or phrase that means “art” (as a general aesthetic quality of something)
Why is English “ka” and  “ca” sometimes rendered as キャ (kya) instead of カ (ka)?
にだけ vs だけに　－　Difference in meaning?
what is the correct reading for this kanji [closed]
Can't understand what this passage is trying to say
Is a negative nuance possible with しっとり when used to describe moisture of an object?
What does it mean when someone says ”話を大きくしてる”
How does 好き work in relative clauses?
Difference between 嵌まる and 填まる
Stative verb? Qualifying sentence?
Can I say がございませんですが？ Does it make sense?
Why is 温かい used instead of 熱い when ordering a hot drink?
Is 好きな方法を選べ a command?
Meaning of “捻り” in context of swearing
What is the meaning of 女子大学生?
use of “やらってか” in this phrase
What is the difference [一瞬]{いっ・しゅん}, [一刻]{いっ・こく}, and [(一)刹那]{(いっ・)せつ・な}
Is 知{し}らんけど a phrase in every dialect or just kansai?
Whats does のか do in the next sentence
What does 決まった人たち mean in this context?
Grammar explanation for と粘ってよかった
intuitively, why do かねる and かねない roughly mean “cannot” and “can”?
What is the word or set-phrases of “grinding/grindy gameplay” as opposed to “power-leveling” in formal/informal Japanese
Is using 人口 when referencing animal populations alright?
Can i use 戻りました or 帰って来ました after being offline for a long period to say i'm back online?
Use of にだってある程度 in this sentence
Nuance when the subject is moved to the end of the phrase
What is the best word choice for “cycle”?
Why 習近平 is しゅうきんぺい while 文在寅 is むんじぇいん?
代えさせていただきます sentence translation
Clarification on personification in Japanese
Marking figurative meaning of word
What does 運を消費していく mean?
Existence verbs in the Kansai Dialect
Why do I often see guys saying 何をしているの
What is the meaning of “てこと”?
Meaning of 幼くして and 醒めている
using の with と,で, から, まで
"A:　いつごろ切符を予約しましたか。 B:　３か月前です”　why should it be です but not でした?
How to answer to 精一杯頑張ってきます?
Can は imply more than just topic?
Help Translating 私の口には合わなかった
Sentence topic without grammatical function
What does the double use of “殺せる” mean here?
「もらえりゃあいうことない」の意味
How to understand the last character 枚 in 福田熊治良枚
what あびて means?
Is there any slang for 絞首刑?
一週間続いたあなた パワーアップ -1.2kcal
Something lost in translation regarding returning money in this conversation
What is the meaning of とも in this sentence?
そう in “あなたはどうしてそう私を心配させるの”
What does なんか文句あんのかな、何のお悩みか？ mean
What is the proper word for relationship?
Prohibition in Japanese depending on level of formality
Why does 〜しそうだ seem to be used in place of 〜すること here?
How to say “Everyone but me …”
What does this mean? '誰もがここで生まれたので、学校は大変でした.'
Is there a relation between these two usages of としては?
Interpretation of “ゴミとして引き取ってもらった”
Help with meaning of 新規掲載絵皆無貧困絵描
Help understanding the usage of “真似” in this context
Why does this kanji use “sora” as its reading?
How to learn proper Japanese handwriting
征伐, せいばつ, seibatsu: a conquest or a 'righteous conquest'?
Confusion about omitted “object” with 有する
Why would 「行こうとしようよ」be interpreted as “let's try to try to go”?
は with 好き exception?
In what way does ちうわけで serve this sentence?
The reading of お母さん
問題なのは~ vs 問題は~ difference
Interpretation of 糧に次から
Confusion with the use of と in article
Confusing about を that has no verb in article
usage of ぎりで in this sentence
Why are the South China Sea and East China Sea still referred to as “南シナ海 ” and “東シナ海” when “シナ” is considered derogatory when referring to China?
「言っちゃったほうが、」の意味
Direct objects of motion verbs and help with the difference between を and に
How to interpret 緩やかな風で森がざわめく音だけが、闇を飾るように聞こえてくる。
Can every noun be a na-adjective?
Does a bear sh*t in the woods? Rhetorical affirmations in Japanese. Is there any?
＃回に＃度: probability or sequence?
How do you say “Celestial Shogunate” in Japanese?
Where? Variations and usages
I don't understand this usage of その?
politeness level of dochirasama desu ka
Break down this sentence: お金がなくて最近はほとんど食べていないのです。 [closed]
Can you say Dekiba
I-Adjectives in the Kagoshima dialect
About a proverb students have on their diaries
Sudden shift in this conversation
The meaning of この+own personal name
Is it 需要は多い or 需要は高い
Please help me understand the following sentences
What's the difference between 食べていよう and 食べましょう?
Why does this sentence have so many words to describe its title?
Words in the Kagoshima dialect
Adding 駄 on the beginning of the word
動詞の前の「と」の使い方と意味
What is the difference between といったところです and というところです?
Why 入った and not 入た past tense
the meaning and use of the word 殺素 today
How to use 減算 and 引き算 correctly?
Help understanding meaning of sentence
A good translation for 寒がるふり / 冷めたふり / etc?
What is the character etymology of 風?
what is してき in this sentence?
いかに～かどうか structure in this sentence
Grammar correction: Death Note theme deconstruction
Why are police boxes labeled Koban (in roman letters) in Japan?
Translation request from manga (海街 Diary volume 1)
Interpretting お世話になる職場の方
The correct parsing of 無類 In this sentence
Meaning of “１部２万”
Correct spelling of “Gemu Otaku”
How does this passage change the topics of discussion so quickly?
How would I know whether a word existed and was commonly used N years ago?
が frequentally being used in ways I cant understand
Connotation of 年季の入った when describing things
PhraseA-て + phraseB + ために + phrase C
does the word “Option” have an analogue in Japanese
Implications/usage of “訳あり”
Why is 輩 in 先輩 pronounced ぱい while 輩 in 後輩 is pronounced はい?
Foreign names in Kanji. On'yomi, Kun'yomi or a mix of readings?
Verbてform +くれるじゃないの Exact meaning
Difference between ものだ, ことだ and ものがある?
を usage over から and で in example sentences related to movement [duplicate]
verbs using が to mark the direct object/subject
“星を投げ合う” in the context of the Internet
What does ~てやってくれ means?
How to say “When is the last bus to X”
「彼氏と彼女の　三三九度に　坊やおなかで　高砂や」?
What's the reading of 空く?
I'm not sure how to understand “事業者の幹部” in this sentence
How does “like” become an adjective?
Is there a term for “the one that got away”?
な directly after a noun (not a な-adjective)
What I said the nuance of the phrase きっと青春が聞こえる？
How to interpret 「ニッポン死ね」 in the following context
The meaning of そんな気持ちはなくて in this context
What does ○○に透けた mean in this sentence?
When to use　するほうがいい instead of したほうがいい in order to mean “Should do”?
Can I say 日本語程度 as an alternative for 日本語実力?
Is Kanōsei a word?
What is the Japanese Homophonic Group?
Clarification about how 惚れた should be translated
Is there a defined cause for the recent rise in the popularity of gairaigo?
What is the difference between 乗り越すand 乗り過ごす?
Difference between 出産 and お産
What does ‘‪いてね‬’ mean?
is there a way to say “region-locked” in japanese?
When are foreign language based words written with kanjis?
ともに after a unit of time?
The correct usage of ～と決める, ～に決める, and ～を決める
“I hate change”
I don't understand a definition of one of the meanings of 途方?
What is the difference between ガラクタ and ゴミ？
How would one translate or understand the word 死鬼 in English?
What is the meaning of っ on its own
Translate German name “Markus” to Japanese
「から」「ので」「ーんで」など
logical processing of this lyric
What is the difference between using を and に with the verb 注目する?
Is ものもある a grammar pattern?
What is the function of を in this sentence? [duplicate]
Which is the verb belonging to the particle を?
What is the correct pronunciation of 唯一
すき (“suki”) vs すきだ (“sukida”)
would 「なんとか」 be an acceptable replacement for “something”?
How to use 来る in the sense of “is coming”
trouble understanding usage of なければ in this case
What's the response to あなたにもっと早くしてなんて言われる覚えはないですよ。?
Difference between Xが原因で and Xで
English 2nd and 3rd conditional in Japanese
Use of と in 亡くなった人と亡くなっていたことがわかった人
Relative clause with both direct object and head noun as object
Does the particle 'の' change the meaning of this phrase?
興味を持ってきている versus 興味がある
What does “とは” mean in these sentences? [duplicate]
What is the difference between それでは and それなら
「かえって疎まれる」の意味について
会いたかった : What does it mean?
How to parse the following “N1+に必要となる＋N2”?
What is the difference between プログラム and 日程 in the context of a スポーツ大会?
Does 同棲 always have a romantic connotation?
perfective aspect vs resultative present progressive vs resultative past progressive
Meaning of どうすんだよ
Conjugated word + んだ vs nonconjugated word + conjugated んだ
What's the difference between particle へ and を?
Do I have this right? Also what “tense” is this
About the construction 大好きな彼女
「ずいぶん」と「ずいぶんと」の違い
Is this phrase an insult or jealousy?
番組のタイトルに「踊る」、どういう意味を表していますか？
The meaning of 石松 in 待ってください用心棒なら この石松が
て form at end of phrase but not being used for requests
What is the difference between が and を when using verbs?
I don't understand the difference in meaning of ようにする and ようになる in this particular sentence
The order after 男女比
形容動詞 attributively before a noun: な or conjugated だ
About the grammar of「寝ぐらに」
Difference between 仮、一時的、臨時 when expressing “temporary”
Difference between 上、のみならず、ばかりか
What is nuance of using 外来語 for simple nouns?
べんきょうを します / べんきょうします interpretation and use
What does あいつ and こいつ imply in various situations/contexts?
What is the difference between 訪れる and 訪ねる?
Meaning of 小動物系
Use of の in colored objects [duplicate]
Why would you use な for そう forms of い adjectives?
How should I understand 「会社員はこの計画を部署の知識として理解する。」?
Meaning of the phrase 表す通り
What is the word for an independent-minded person? What is the opposite of that word?
Word select: 食べます？／飲みます？
Why would you use 好き to describe a favorite object?
What is the purpose of はある in this sentence?
Article about Amazon Speaker being used for donations
Why is は used here instead of が?
Why な instead of の is used in the anime title “はるかなレシーブ”?
。。。したのではないのだから、。。。The different of the two の
What kind of periods can I put before にわたって?
Are these two noun phrases attached to one noun? Also what is とは doing here?
~なけりゃ or ~なきゃ, how to know which one to use?
What is the formal expression of 住んでんだ
Please help me with this sentence (the を related problem)
二十歳を[頭]{かしら}に translation
Meaning of も in Xは日本でも有名だ
Is ii or ī more common in rōmaji?
Can anyone help identify this character 僮?
Do unit words belong to a word or a specific object?
What does “ニセサマ” (nisesama) mean? It was in Chuunibyou
Translation of おい　お茶
Unknown kana in a late C19th address cartouche
What is the difference between 武道 and 格闘技?
Meaning of this どうだとか言う construction
Two or more verbs modifying a noun
Why is くなかった wrong and ではありません preferred in this sentence?
What is the speaker afraid of in this sentence?
〜により used twice in the same sentence
そんな事で変わる未来じゃないだろう where's the subject
都内 is reserved for the capital Tokyo, what term is used to mean a foreign capital city? [duplicate]
Meaning of もの in this title/name
Is 僕 (boku) only appropriate for cisgendered men?
指導に当たる meaning? To teach someone or to be taught by someone
What is the meaning of “私はと比較して何もしないよ彼”?
How to say hello and goodbye in shops?
Trying to figure out this sentence
見事な活躍　～　use of 活躍
What dialect replaces です with a shorter version of it (ーす)?
Difference between 家内、嫁、妻、奥さん、かみさん and other words meaning wife
When a kanji term is listed as outdated, is it for specific words or all of the words that use it?
Is there a triple vowel extension in this character name?
Why is a baby called 赤ちゃん？
What is the difference between 数学 and 数理?
Referring to the Four Seasons of Japan
Trying to understand this use of 〜た方が
Dangling Particle Question
How does atsui (あつい) sound like English 'hot'?
Issues translating “get an ultrasound.”
Is it true that a polysyllabic verb ending in iru or eru whose e/i syllab is written in hiragana ichidan?
When Chinese personal names are written in Japanese in kanji is there always an obvious reading?
Nuance of Aに甘えてしまう, to spoil A or to depend on A
「〜てもらおう」の意味は何ですか。
Usage of 目黒 outside of 目黒区
Does a kanji with only a kun'yomi reading indicate a Japanese origin? [closed]
On the topic of 美化語 (Refined Language), are there any websites that list words that take お〜, ご〜 or neither?
How to express “help someone with X”
Can a verb end with 〜ます before the conjunction ので? [duplicate]
What does “kittie-kittie-kittie” mean and how is it spelled correctly (in transcription) [closed]
Logical analysis of the sentence 「アメリカとの関係が悪くなったイランからの原油の輸入が減ると考える人などが多いためです」
Is かっこいい used to describe men and women?
How would I ask for a persons Age, Sex, and Location (ASL) in Japanese?
Difference between 自己 and 自分
What is difference between “終わったり” and “終わり”? I can't find “終わったり” in English Japanese dictionary [duplicate]
What is なんでって a contraction of in this sentence?
Difference between 満足 and 円満
が particles and their usages
What is the proper way to use 初回?
「希望」の使い方・意味、類似表現
Why can は and を sometimes be used interchangeably?
Meaning of ジョンさんはきのう五時間しか寝ませんでした 。 [duplicate]
「なでさすられて」の文法は何ですか。
Why there is a の in オープンしたばかりのレストラン?
Why is が added at the end of この小娘が in this clip?
Meaning of お世話になる vis a vis place of work or place where someone is being trained
What does なくた mean in 理解されなくたっていい?
Honorific suffix 御 as in 甥御 and 姪御?
What's the パ in 非ホジキンリンパ腫?
Would a japanese person recognize this icon (fa-language) to represent translation or language change? [closed]
In terms of Japanese crime syndicates, what is the difference between 組 and 会?
What is the meaning of “人の身である” and “人あらざる”?
What does 未鑑定の為、模写として出品致します mean?
What does verb+とする mean?
The convention of including/omitting ‘no zu’ (之圖) in translations
Is the ー (ちょうおん) character used with Hiragana and Kanji?
叱られる時に「うるさい！」と「やかましい！」のどちらがきついですか？
Please help translate this sentence. 請求する行為によって時効を中断しない限り,
"と使います”, Why と is used instead of を？
Tell me what あてがない means
Is this proper use of 敬語 in a business situation?
Meaning of 人減 when used as a noun
a sentence that ends with “de”
What is the meaning of 売るほうも売るほうなら、買うほうも買うほうだ。 [duplicate]
How can I express “at least” in the sense of “it would be worse otherwise”?
Why たく isn't used in negative form in this sentence?
Help with 出てしまって vis a vis people afflicted with disease
What is the difference between 悩み and 疑問?
Can まで be dropped in the XからYまで structure even though the Y is said?
What does 9月とか10月なんですよ mean?
Meaning of まで in 地下３階まであります
Are typhoons more commonly referred to by number or name?
What is the origin of the foreign word サクランボ?
Is チョンボ commonly used to mean mistake (outside of conversations about 麻雀), even by people who don't play it?
Is 「湯を沸かす」 an exception or an example of a general rule?
Why did the 黄色い線 become the 黄色いブロック?
～うございます - keigo い-adjectives
What does a Japanese person mean when they say 「熱い、熱い!」 in the following situation?
What does ー mean in this context?
What is the difference between 織機(しょっき) and 機 (はた)?
What are the pizza delivery guys called?
Translation/understanding お世話になっている場所
How to ask someone “Are you going to/attending X?”; 'X' being a name of an event (a concert/someone's wedding/etc)
Who is the doer when we use the verb 崩す?
Are the following standard ways of using katakana?
What is the conjugation form, grammar of もうすぐ込んできそう ？
What is the difference between 約 and 約束?
What does それだけかかってしまうんですね　in this conversation mean?
Have a trouble with まで
Can eto be used to show doubt before speaking or it's another kind of interjection?
What is the difference between 問い and 質問?
is 𢌬 a variant of 廾, or is it another radical with another meaning?
Trouble with 出ては消え in this sentence [duplicate]
Is there a difference between 事務室 and 事務所?
Trouble describing a situation and the use of relative clauses
Equivalent of “Yes sir/ma'am” for children
What is the name for a blackboard eraser? [closed]
Why is there a 'な' before ’ので’ in this sentence? [duplicate]
What is 死んだってなるもんか
Relative Clause Ambiguous
Question about using the past form verb 「まった」 in this sentence
Is there a difference in (im)politeness between ～てくれ and ～て？
What function does と serve in this phrase?
Are Japanese counters an adoption from the Chinese language?
How would you express “A demands B” in japanese
Is ょう still one single word/助動詞 in the expression しましょう?
「が」 meaning “or”
What is the reading of the town 北谷?
How is this unnecessarily informal?
How to say “vice versa” in Japanese?
What does 口 add to words like 出口？
今何をしてる vs 今何をしてるの
Should I replace commas with と in Japanese?
What is the exact meaning of “Xのは”? [duplicate]
Is there a good reason why I can use a polite form before から but not before ので? [duplicate]
〜たい vs 〜ない for proposing a plan [duplicate]
「感謝のしようもありません。」の「しよう」はどういう意味ですか？
Is it an exception of 「ある」と「いる」の使い分け?
Using the word “Unique” in Isolation
Is there a っぱ suffix? If so, what does it mean?
Do any Japanese words start with n besides ンジャメナ?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
Whats the difference between なんで日本語を話せますか vs なんで日本語を話せるのですか
Grammatical correctness of 〜好きくない
Is kanji (especially hyogai kanji) more prevalent than usual on Twitter, or is it the opposite?
What are the plastic meals featured in restaurants called?
だ versus な in causal subordinate clauses
What is the difference between 経験 and 体験?
Is ねえ negative in this sentence?
I do not understand why と is incorrect when trying to say “both” [duplicate]
とか vs たりする what's the difference?
Does the etymology of 星 suggest the japanese/chinese knew the sun was a star?
How do I say “put my foot down”?
Meaning of フリッカー and ニュル in the following sentence
Is there a kanji term for “-san” when used to address someone?
How to use ~のか accurately? 「体調が悪いのか、顔色があまり良くない。」
Question about “でも” in this particular sentence [duplicate]
Why is the topic marker often used in negative statements (ではない, ～とは思わない)?
Kana in Movie Title: 「シン・ゴジラ」
How to interpret this sentence in context of the picture above?
Is there a good explanation for the forms 大きな, 小さな and 多くの?
“Maybe we can meet up for dinner or something” in Japanese
What is the difference between 勝利 and 勝ち?
What does てもいい mean? [duplicate]
How do I respond to よろしくお願いします after being assigned a task at work?
問うてはいけない？why not 問ってはいけない [duplicate]
What does “deshyo” alone mean as a response?
What is the best way to express the concept of “accountability” in Japanese?
Is the phrase ねぇ、ちょっと寄ってかない？ written incorrectly?
What is the preference if reading a single Kanji?
How would I say that the food I ate “didn't agree with me”?
Why is だ being used at the end of the following sentence?
Is 「悩まされている 」a 使役受身形
What are the durable shopping bags called?
Does Japanese have an original word for banana besides the loanword バナナ?
Usage of commas in Japanese sentences
Pitch accent in combination with the を particle
How do you translate “Bavarian Bierkeller” into natural Japanese rendition? (and more)
Grammatical Correctness of 最終+noun
What is the term used for a baby's age at birth?
「恨んでなどいません」についての文法
「。。。であるのも」は「であるし」の意味ですか？
「○○は草」とはどういう意味でしょうか？
Can a newcomer to an area or a new employee be referred to as a gaijin?
連携と接続の違いは何でしょうか。
Online versus face to face [duplicate]
What form is 超え in 人の理を超え…?
What does 「ニゴでした」mean?
被害 vs 害; 被害者 vs 害者
What's the meaning of 終末 in 終末の微笑
～と多い here meaning?
What is the difference between 大凡(おおよそ) and 凡そ(およそ)?
How do you say “no!” (to stop someone)?
How to say - Fine, don't listen to me
「広がる広げる漢字の知識」ってどういう意味ですか
What's the meaning of もの in this sentence?
What's the difference betweenグズ野郎 andクソ野郎
What is the difference between ばんごはん and よるごはん?
Can ような mean “To make”?
Is there a term used for the closing music heard at malls and schools at the end of the day?
Japanese word for window sill
What is the name of the writing that appears on the screen when watching television?
Meaning of ってね in this context
Is there a historical explanation why verbs fall into two categories of pitch accent?
Can somebody give me the right pitch accent for the following verbal forms?
What nuances are carried when addressing someone as きみ?
Why is わるいそうです similar to わるいといっています?
Is there a name for empanadas in japanese?
Missing particle after など in article about new technologies to monitor employees
Meaning of よくやるよな
Ending a phrase with なく instead of a verb
Metaphorical meaning of 骨
Can I use 素敵 to describe a wonderful person?
To hope something would or would not happen
When should I say 10年越しの夢 instead of 10年の夢?
How is プレゼントしてくれた different from プレゼントした?
May I use 洗濯日 to indicate a day for washing clothes?
Is 動物語 a valid term for the sounds that animals make?
Does 上鳴 mean shut up?
What term denotes a Japanese style living room?
Difference between 今晩 and 今夜
私に消しゴムを借りさせて下さいませんか versus 私に消しゴムを貸して下さいませんか
Help understanding / translating a Japanese sentence with nested clauses
Is there a contradiction in these sentences?
Does 東京 have a nickname?
What's the difference between まま and っぱなし？
Meaning of ということで this time?
Difference お疲れ様です vs お疲れ様でした while leaving from office?
英語を喋りますか？ Can you chat online using the English language? [closed]
「。。。個人を超えた大きなものの」ってどういう意味ですか？
Meaning of the the structure 〜V1てV2ようとしたが、〜 in the sentence
Confused on いつも　＋　verb~ている
Is there a good historical explanation why we cannot generally use 言う in the 3rd person in the past tense?
「によって」の意味と使い方についての質問です
Meaning of "さすがにそこまではしません！”
Why the word 宣材 is not in the dictionary?
The usage of 比べて — without saying the thing being compared to?
What do we know about vowel variations such as 雨 read as あめ/あま
use of しゃれ vs 冗談
What times are considered to be 夜中?
How is the 〒 postal code symbol pronounced?
Help with meaning
Difference between 大変{たいへん} and 難しい{むずかしい}
Is there a good etymological reason why the potential form in Japanese requires the が particle?
Does 色 (iro) have to be placed after colour kanji?
What are some alternative answers to ogenki desuka? [duplicate]
The meaning/nuance of と言うの [duplicate]
What does うい mean?
Is there a reason why the passive and the potential form are identical (at least for える/いる verbs)?
今年の春休み - Optional usage of の
Meaning of 芯を通す and 芯の通る
I'm trying to describe a bird hopping from branches to branches
Making a sign one column vertically. Don't know anything about Japanese
Is there a response to kochirakoso?
Proper use of ◎ことは◎ for する verbs
Do other numbered terms for spices besides hitoaji (一味) and shichimi (七味) exist?
Meaning of ~たりしたため
Formal way of expressing something (like a job) done for someone
What type of space should be before 第?
Welcoming museum guests
~たいだとか why is there a だ here?
How to say - Soccer Nutmeg
Are the days of the week named after the planets?
Does the term 絵本 refer only to children's books?
Do translators often convert units of measurement when translating into Japanese?
What is the meaning of 見たいない？ [closed]
の (no) vs ~i for colors, can they be used indistinctly?
Relative clauses distinguishing whom/with which/that
How to express “just” or “only” (that's all) with verbs?
Are Japanese people 内国人？
「ばかりに」についての文法の質問です。教えてください
「そうなの？！」、「マジで？！」、「本当に？！」
Where does the な in 大人 (otona) come from?
What does 苦学 and 何浪 mean in this sentence?
What words and/or phrases can you use in Japanese for story / storytelling / the art of telling a story?
Are all intransitive verbs becoming stative with ている?
Meaning of 欲ばっから and help with the following sentence
How to parse 何てこった
What were the recent heavy rains in Kyushu called?
「おはつよろ」のいみはなんですか？
Is 知らないでしまった a thing?
When is 助けてください appropriate?
How to interprete 最大限活用しよう here?
Why is a bubble tea called 'タピオカジュース' or 'タピオカティー 'in Japan?
いる/える Godan Verb Rules?
What is the difference between 生活 and 暮らし?
What does nda ンだ stand for?
What does そんなことで mean in this context?
What does this character mean? [closed]
What does “Ho Ho” mean in English?
te form for two or more verbs
昼飯食ったら また行こうぜ - What grammar is the kuttara in this sentence? [duplicate]
How to ask if someone wants to continue farming a boss in game / Interrupt to leave
Translating “you” as 君 when giving a definition
Is the pronunciation of 翼 (tsubasa) 訓読み or 音読み?
Most natural way of saying something is better than or best
Meaning of: 私に描いてれない？ [closed]
What does ^^; mean?
What is the difference between 不気味 and 無気味?
Question about で in this sentence
How to translate particle とも and 絞る?
新着順 English Meaning
Verb Stem vs. の Nominalizations
What's the difference between いえ and うち? [duplicate]
Kanzen Master N1 Question Help - ほどのことではない vs ほどには当たらない
殺す vs 殺して vs 殺されて confusion
Confusion about possible double condition in article about fires
How to differentiate between 'a' and 'the'
Article title ends in te form [duplicate]
Should you say English loanwords in the Japanese pronunciation?
What's the difference between かと思うか and 途端に?
「猫の額」, the purpose of 日本語の分かる猫
What is the etymology of Horaisan?
日本へ手紙を送る vs 手紙を日本へ送る
“I wish I could say…”
Why is に used in 料理によく使います?
understanding what sounds like 「だけどお値段はもっていません。」
Should emphasis follow the copula or move to the topic marker?
Question about this sentence , -られる and なくちゃ
What does “しまの入り具合など品質は例年並みだということです。” mean in this sentence?
対する vs 関する？　For to 'relate' meaning
What does だからここでもただ先生と書くだけで本名は打ち明けない mean exactly?
What are the uses of に and と in this sentence?
Can もっともっと be used as more and more?
What does she says in this video?
Addressing a group of people with -tachi (たち) and name of one
etymology of 冬ごもり
Different ways to express 'if A happens'
右 and 石 stroke order differences [duplicate]
Confused on use of ため in article about Honda's robot Ashimo [duplicate]
Ordering of Particles:「にや」OR「やに」?
What was the process by which 有職読み applied to personal names?
the meaning of ところ in this sentence [duplicate]
This is a macron or a kana?
What did I say was 苦手?
How to extend a general invitation? (if anyone wants to…)
What is the difference between 恥ずかしい and 気恥ずかしい?
What is the role of そうよ in そうよ存外怖くはないわ?
What's the meaning of こと in this sentence?
Use of でいらっしゃる and でござる
usage of でないほど in this sentence
What particle to use in this sentence? [closed]
What does ウ○ク mean in ウ○クの方の、中○、韓○嫌いは異常。?
How do you write someone's name if you don't know what kanji to use?
simple response to question
Volitional: 見せましょう does not mean “let's have a look”?
くださるんじゃ…: Formal, semi-casual, poor usage, etc.?
Does anyone knows the meaning of “モゾリと”?
What does 私が mean in this context?
Simple response to あなたはばんごはんを食べて、なにをしますか
pronunciation of は [duplicate]
Difference between 冗談 and ジョーク?
Usage of に in 「雨にぬれる」
I’m confused about に particle
Usages of 与えられる
Question about verbs in Old Japanese
What's 'to take one's proper station' in japanese?
Whats the difference between meaning and connotation of the different parts of まるで。。。かのように
Does がくがく refer to shaking in general, or shaking of the knees?
What is the difference between あお and あおい?
“あの星があなたで” and “あの星はあなただ”, between those two, what's the difference?
名乗るｖｓ名付ける? Differences?
Does 'yuki' really mean happiness?
それで, それと, それから, あと(は), and そのほかに: The difference
Making sense of the N1にN2 construction (「パンにバター」＝「パンにバターをぬる」）
Titles for family
Spaces in Japanese
What is the meaning of ta-form + 上で in this context?
I'm not really sure what's up with these words (鼓動 and 巨重) in this sentence
Multiple verbs as noun modifiers
Use of が in article about Midsummer Day of the Ox and selling eel
How to say fractions and ratios in Japanese
numbers in Kanji
What does よ bring in 「〜ないでよね」？
What is the difference between the two sentences?
Is it possible that “何度も” could be translated as “Nothing or anything”?
how do the conjunctive forms work here?
In terms of “this school”, what is the difference between この学校, 本校, and 当校?
The Japanese term for “synonym discussion”?
How can I say of a person that he or she has an open or closed personality?
What does き mean in this sentence?
What does this sentence about 生活用水 mean?
What's the difference between というか and というより?
What is the meaning of いくらもしないうちに from Spice and Wolf?
What is the difference between するはずだった andしたはずだった
What's the difference between そうだ and そうです?
Difference between あまり , あまりに and あまりにも
Formal, feminine first-person pronoun
Question about “nari”
Why are katakana preferred over hiragana or kanji sometimes?
What's the difference between どうされましたか and どうなさいましたか?
Mixed Fractions/Mixed Numerals in Japanese
What is the difference between きつい and 辛い（つらい）?
What does the word 「ぶったてる」mean?
How do I ask 'what is this place'?
non-imperative て ending in a sentence
What does どぼり mean?
Is it possible to use いざ知らず with verbs?
Difference between 同一 and 同じ?
how to say “i'll change the meeting day to tomorrow” in japanese?
The difference among と言えば and と言うと
What's the difference between “sa” and “za” with pronunciation?
Help with a few sentences using 許す
What does 春闘集約 mean?
What does it mean when you add 'おっか' to the stem of a verb? [duplicate]
How do you say 'take my dog for an hour long walk'? [closed]
Confusion about conditional だと used in article about beetle
What is なく doing in this sentence?
Use of の in article about beetle
What is the proper way to ask for date format preference in a program?
What does the warrior in the red armor, Hirotaro, say in the Last Samurai movie?
Can someone identify this stamp in a Bible that allowed my roommate's Grandpa to keep it in a POW camp in WW2?
Difference between からして and からすれば
～てたまらない、～てならない、～しようがない
How is 盛り上げ used in these examples?
一 (いち) before nouns
What is いやほい from the Kyary Pamyu Pamyu song 原宿いやほい HARAJUKU IYAHOI?
Confusion with だけに vs. だけあって
Not using くて in i-adjective Conjunctions
How would you say 'a fork is a tool you eat with'?
How does this に in 走行中に work here?
携帯電話をポケットに入れて歩く「うちに」is using うちに with short “situation” proper?
besides meaning of preparation, what is other meaning of Te Oku
Can アジアンビューティー be negative?
How to say 'It differs depending on the person'
What is the difference among その上 and 上に?
JLPT question - what does のには mean in this sentence/
Can I use the word “Genkō” to mean “current”?
Use of 余裕で in this context
“to be impressed” in Japanese
I'm not sure what 言われちゃえ means
About って in the following sentences
Which is the most common way to say “awkward”; 違和感, 気詰まり, or 気まずい?
Why does 見合せ mean a service interruption?
Use of 可能な他 in a sentence
How to say 'Exercise is also very important' (Hontō ni)
Meaning of いざ出陣?
Question about the uses of “を” particle besides being a “direct object” and “spatial object” marker
How does 移して 運ぶ function here?
Motion verbs in ている form?
Is it usual for men to use な instead of ね?
Why do people say 分からない and not 分かっていない?
What do you treat as an animate and inanimate object when counting?
Why 一番星 read as Ichibanboshi instead of Ichibanhoshi?
What is the meaning of this part of sentence?
When do we use 値 (あたい) instead of 価値 or 値段?
How to say “lacquer” when talking about food?
Which is the main meaning of 与える? [duplicate]
What verb does the conjugation 満つる come from and what does it mean?
Difference between 粗い and 荒い
Choice of シティ and 市 in translating “Mega city police”
How to say 'many times a day'?
I can't understand anything in this sentence. Please help
The actual meaning of ending さ
やさしさがうれしい meaning [duplicate]
As sentence-ending feminine particles, what is the difference between の and わ?
When can a word normally read with its on-reading be read with its kun-reading?
The use of Joyo Kanji in names
What do verbs missing their -る mean? [duplicate]
Meaning of で Before a Conjunction [duplicate]
What's the difference between 請求, 要求, and 需要?
Opinion on meaning
止める and 止まる being used equally
is there any evidence that ばら is commonly understood as gay
Question about the characters on Japanese Yen banknotes
How does 初めて work with location?
What do ほかには and ほかのは mean?
How can I say “pick-up from the hotel”?
Question regarding Zutto and Datta in the same clause
「世界の何々」の表現の意味は何ですか。
Is there a difference between ラーメン and 中華そば?
Translation: あまり働きすぎないでください。
Is it Amekakure or Amegakure?
kuse construct query
ikenai construct
What is the difference between 「もらいませんか」 and 「もらいましょうか」? [duplicate]
does 戋 have any meaning of its own?
Is「どっちかの～は～」a non-slang Japanese expression?
Is ~と used the same as ~ないと in this case?
How should I say someone “let me through”?
Use of の + how to construct a phrase without it
What is being omitted in this advertisement sentence?
What's the role of the に particle in this sentence?
Usage of じゃないか when not a tag question or a negative question
grammar usage:ｘもｙもｚもあります vs ｘとｙとｚはあります
Meaning of いいようにしなさい
Grammar question ~そうとしない [duplicate]
What's the meaning of 私でもたまに in the following sentence?
Why is そんなに the best answer in「（いくら・そんなに・どんなに）笑わなくてもいいじゃありませんか。」?
What is the difference between 組織 and 体系?
The usage of 'も' in a question
そいつ -a person or a thing?
Can 買う mean to spend on?
Can the word 物 refer to a person?
～とく・ておく to emphasize a negative thing?
What's the use of ね in the following two sentences?
Usage of commas in Japanese sentences
What is the meaning of 「そーれっ」
What does this kanji mean?
Addressing strangers in public
Is there another meaning for 逃げるな？
Modifiers with 好き
Is there an onomatopoeia of mumbling in japanese?
How to understand …だけで…できる
Could ベビーカー be derived from “Baby carriage”?
extending an invitation with alot of information in it
Understanding 分かる in this sentence
What is the difference between ぶつ, 叩く, and 殴る?
What is the difference between この一方で　and その一方で?
Using 通う(かよう) and 通る(とおる) [duplicate]
Help with the grammar だと and なるみたい
どれ as an attribute
I don't understand the role of the に particle in this sentence?
Checking skit translation [closed]
The meaning of もしかして
Reversed S in Japanese transliteration
Has a noun been dropped here? 「お店で食べた奴のがおいしかった」
What is the difference between 倒産 and 破産?
how to make a statement with two verbs
When is 下 alone read げ outside of a handful of idiomatic usages (if ever)?
Does this symbol 术 has any meaning of its own?
creating a question given a response
What is the intonation variation for 居る vs 要る?
What is the equivalent in arabic numbers of ３．２千
What is the difference between dono hito and donata?
Meaning of ガチのM
Use of ある in this sentence?
Are these sources wrong about the usage of ただ and だけ?
What is the function of で in this sentence?
The meaning ところを見るに
Does ending a question in the negative imply a presupposition as it does in English?
using 老人 to describe an item
Why do you use に with 欲しい?
Detailed distinction and relationship between 文、文書、文章、本書、本文、作文、文字、作成、表記 (and possibly others)
What does どしゅっ mean?
What are the implied differences in わたくし and わたし?
Use of kanji when writing 言う
Using ～なくなった vs. ～ない
もうすぐだ — Which would be best translation?
受け身形, 使役形, and 使役受け身形: A side by side comparison practice
What is the difference between 「『の』ための」, 「『の』ために」and 「に」?
何とも Usage and Meaning
「ヘト」という意味はなんですか。 [duplicate]
Is 「今朝」 or 「今日の朝」 more natural?
Meaning of にして in these sentences
Trouble with the usage of ずつ translating my own sentences
Japanese phrase for “Eyes wide open in surprise”
Translation of basic sentence confused on subject placement
「素早い」と「早い」ってどう違いますか？
いつ and とき how to tell when to use which
N+にわたって/にわたり/にわたる
Turning down an invitation: grammar question
Meaning of デコ助 in this sentence
Is it かも？ Or some particles? I'm lost with this sentence!
How do I ask about the specifics of a general activity (like watching TV, reading) with correct grammar?
きり and から: When the meaning “since” is used, how do they differ?
What is the difference between「働かせる」and 「使う」?
What does this sentence mean exactly?
How is「言わんとする」normally used?
あり+と: What does と do when preceded by a verb stem?
What is the meaning of adjectives ending in 〜く?
Nが好き vs Vのが好き what form should be used?
Who is the subject of すきです?
と as a consequence
Differences between いる and まつ
Translation help with の?
Pronouncing “Tsu” and “R” sound in Japanese
とやら in direct addressing
What does 波 mean at the end of a sentence?
までvsにかけてのちがい全くわかりません
までvsにかけてのちがい全くわかりません
Is なんでこれ the most common way of saying “why is this?”
What does 「どうであるか」mean?
縁＆端: Are these readings still relevant?
I don’t understand the use of the particle に in the following sentence
Meaning of 「にならない」
「ことにまで」についての質問です
How do you say “ 14 days left and will finish the vacation ”?
Usage of する for the five senses - 音がする, 匂いがする, etc
そういうことです vs そういうことになります
What are these symbols?
What does ヤラレ女/やられ女 mean?
Combining multiple nouns with a lack of attributive verbs
決して～ない　vs　まったく～ない
Which grammar structure does this sentence fit into?
What's the difference between そうですね, そうですか, そうです
basic grammar of pointing words
What sort of intonation should I have when using だろう/でしょう?
What is the meaning of 制限 when talking about phones/phone numbers?
What does this sentence translate to or what does 見ていて and 様子 mean in this context?
Can し act as replacement for て when listing a series of adjectives?
発する, 罰する, 反する, etc. taking strange conjugation せられる for the passive form
What is this 英語だと implying?
How can this intransitive verb be used transitively here?
Is this され方 or され and ほう?
What does this sentence say?
How does という work here?
Parsing 学校を休んで遊んでいるところを友達のお母さんに見られた。 [duplicate]
How to translate 'They made her make him give me the book'?
What is the meaning of まさか…お前が …喜べ
Why is konichiwa spelled as こんにちは [duplicate]
Having trouble parsing out 「私は今までの私ではない」
How can I differentiate between feet and legs?
How to indicate where you are taking something out of?
Possessive の not indicating what is possessed
The place of noun and information using の?
How do you use “ああして” and “もんね”
「〜すぎる」と「〜まくる」はどう違いますか。
Showing gratitude for omiyage yet to be completely finished (ごちそうさまです？）
Can 影響がある・する be used to express all the concepts of 'influencing', 'inspiring' and 'affecting'?
Help parsing and translating this sentence with を at the end
Why there is a “を” in この素晴らしい世界に祝福を and not a “が”? [duplicate]
Why are 'must' and 'must not' both negative and how can I seperate them?
meaning of かまかけ
The role of か in [VERB+か+のNOUN]
What's the difference between ともあろうものが and まじき？
When is 分 read ぶ instead of ぶん
Is まはりて an archaic form of 廻って, and how is it broken down grammatically?
Why isn't 笑う usually used with に particle?
Meaning of Sentence Containing 〜ように
Breaking down the clauses in “好きになってもらいたいならまず人を好きになる”
Meaning and usage of “だっておる/だっており”
What is the use case difference between 去る and 残す?
～まくる as a suffix, what does it mean and how is it used?
I still can't understand how to use でも (and what it's supposed to mean)
different ways of writing こ and ご？
今このしゅんかん - に私が生きている in full cursive?
The verb after conjugation in たり compound sentence, is still a verb? And if so, why is it despite する being the verb？
Difficult sentence from a grammar dictionary
How to say “Custom order is available” in Japanese? [closed]
不自然な文章を直してくれませんか？
When are these different ways of saying 'I' used?
How do you find pitch accent? Is it important?
When should I say the phrase ビールのおかわりお願いします?
What's the correct pronunciation of 思 in と思つ? [closed]
Please help me to understand 納得させて and ごまかす
The direction of くれる and あげる: Is 「彼はこじきに一番よい上着をくれてやった。」 a wrong usage?
呉 is an ancient kingdom in china, how did it become “to give” in japanese?
How to say “in English, X is called Y” in Japanese
What is a good way to translate ぼんぼん into English?
Meaning of 徹している in this sentence
Does the following sentence mean “should not have”? [duplicate]
How to understand “で” and 献立 here?
「砂を噛むように味__ない。」: Which particle(s) to use best, and how do the meanings differ?
Why can we use にせよ in this situation?
What does 相手を見て物をいいなよ mean here?
“続けた結果誕生した” Meaning
Sarcasm in japanese
NOUNS and わけ(だ/ではない) | How do I use them if websites' constructions different…?
How do you express time duration when mixing time units?
謙譲語： More info on お目にかかる & お目もじする?
Question about くそ and “shit”
What does 日曜日のお父さん状態 mean?
Japanese phrase about risk
is this symbol 𤋱 a kanji?
Kanji with unique on'yomi
I'm having trouble translating this sentence
What does そうでも思わないと…… mean?
what does としてもだ mean in this sentence?
What's the meaning of やっていける or いける?
Does A が B となる　mean “A becomes B”?
What does “…に…といった…” mean here?
Problem Distinguishing 〜つもり and 〜ようとする
安いらしい, 安いそうだ, and 高っぽい are incorrect?
How does 自身 fit into the grammar of this sentence?
Can't understand どんなに変わっていこうと笑い飛ばしてよ
what is the function of (だと) and (一人) in this sentence
Terminology for leaving out parts of words
Adverb Word Choice
How to translate 'She was made to make him give me the book'?
What does this と at the end of the sentence do?
手に入りにくいことは and 自分のものにしよう
How do you say something like “trapped rabbit” in Japanese
The double use of で in a sentence
What is the logic of the expression “冗談じゃない”?
ことである in Japanese grammar
She said she thought he was handsome
Meaning of 疑問を胸に取材を進める
what means “もう駄目だと 一人孤独を抱いても” exactly
Is it 行 or 行く? I am unsure of which one
か as a suffix to mean “a few”: Why is 何__かがVERB not allowed
What does い adjective くform + noun signify?
Difference among んがため and べく?
言われてみればそうだった気もしてきたな [closed]
Can Japanese Sentence Structure be OVS?
Meaning of 重なる in this sentence
Discrepancy between Tae Kim's Guide and Tobira in regards to 思われる。
未来って変わっちゃうの, further quotation shenanigans, possibly
。。。と言えば。。。だが construction, what does it mean?
subjects/objects of 代替する in 彼らは水や空気、エネルギーの循環を代替し人間が生存可能な環境を提供し続ける都市を築きました
What does これからもよろしくね mean?
Doubt about “と” in this sentence
How much honorifics should I use when dealing with business as a consumer, online?
やっぱりここって construction, meaning
で particle: what is the role of it in this sentence?
What is an emphatic particle?
How is my understand of this sentence?
How are 専攻 and 専門 different?
Why is the passive form used in this sentence?
What does 欠かせない mean here?
M5強 meaning of 強
Why is で necessary in the following sentence? [duplicate]
What is the difference between ので and のために?
いいです。turn down an offer?
闘わずして勝つ vs. 闘わずに勝つ
*冷えた*スープを温める: Is 冷える a misuse?
Is this phrase correct?
function of と particle in 日本人をよく理解しようと一生懸命な人もいます
Thank you speech for schools and city officials [closed]
“People” vocabulary usage distinction
Is あなた considered rude?
How would you write/pronounce the Japanese version of the following Chinese name?
What's the implication of ん when not asking a question?
水面*が*月を映していた: Is に interchangeable?
possible traduction of the suspensive form/ と particle
What does 動ラ下二 means? And how to pronounce it?
What’s written?
楽しんでいるなと思います（なの意味）
Ways other than て-form and たり～たり～ to connect several sentences and ideas together
How to translate 「こうなれば」
Why do I hear ますから (masukara) so often at the end of sentences?
The use of strategy/戦略 in this line
What would happen if I use は or が in 今日何を食べたいですか?
meaning of 身を切る
Confused by a Sentence Containing a 他動詞 without を
How to say “I've been busy with something”
がもてる　対　にもてる (difference? ex. sentence)
How to say “here and now”, I mean being present in this very moment.
Unsure of an appropriate translation
Why is 翼をください translated as “Please give me wings”?
「がる」と「と思っている」の違いがありますか
Pitch accent for numbers?
Is there any differences between 表す and 意味する?
Inclusion of の when asking a question with 'why'
What is the difference between Xの数人 and 数人のX?
difference それで、だから、ですから
Difference between し and て形
To express that I ordered food for take-out, do I use 「持ち帰り食べ物」 or just 「持ち帰り」?
Pluralization in Japanese: usage of -たち and -ら
What does ご理解いただけた はずでは？ mean here? [closed]
‘から’ と‘ですから’ と、どちらが正しいですか。
「たとえ + ても」 vs just 「ても」, what is the role of たとえ？ Is it just emphasis or something more?
Meaning of Sentence Using 〜ほど…はない
Confusion btw は・が with 嫌になった
How to differentiate kanji compounds from regular kanji
Negation in a verbてverbてはならない/いけない compound
How to say “me neither”?
How to say “Let's have a quick chat”?
Using 乗る as a passenger
What’s the difference between 二親 and 両親?
Difference between 木の皮 and 樹皮?
どうしてもね potential meaning
What is a good way to translate “Mr. A even did X, did Y, did Z, and so on”?
あ、バス、(a. 行かないと　b. 行っちゃった)。How come answer a is not right?
Difference between はともかくとして and　はさておき?
difference among もちろん、きっと、必ず、ぜひ
difference between どの and どちらの
How to pronounce “×”?
Who is the subject when using 記｛き｝者｛しゃ｝泣｛な｝かせ?
When to use ええ and はい?
Is 机のとなりの椅子で読むのが好きです natural?
what is the meaning or use of 暗転
ズボン pronunciation variation & explanation for
この本は貸し出し中です　What is the meaning of “中” in this?
How does one say “toy airplane” in Japanese?
彼女には心配事がない。why there is に?
What does さいですか mean?
Difference between 化成品 - 化学品 - 化工品?
生きててすみません I can not get the sense of this
Is it grammatically correct to say omae ga yorobe? [closed]
What is the difference between でありながらも and でありながら?
Happy Mother's Day, mom! Usage of はは and おかあさん
How to talk about a bend in the road
How should I translate “It was the most horrible time of my life”?
Problem with understanding a sentence according to the context in a NHK article
Is there a difference in connotation between 森林 and 森? [duplicate]
Use of ちょうズレる in a sentence
Why does Duolingo say that 中 is pronounced “naka” but spelled ちゅう?
Why the “H” is pronounced as “Sh” in some cases?
What does すねるたちで mean?
Subject-verb inconsistency in compound sentences: A norm?
How do I express “I'm better at doing X than Y”
Line translation and like それこそ普通はためらうような
Just, what bird is ハヤブサ exactly?
みんなで笑った　ー who made what laugh?
What's does 白紙 (Hakushi) really stand for?
What does いい加減 mean?
Usage of to と in this children's book
Meaning of ところがある in this weather forecast
いつもあなたの名前呼んでいるのよ 気付いてよ此処に来て
Sentence structure of いつだって不安な朝は迎え難い　今日くらい大丈夫だって言って
What's the difference between 気を使う and 気にする?
What exacty does ゆえ mean, and how does it fit this JLPT question?
What is this tiny kanji?
What is 振らな駄目 supposed to mean. Possible typo in the original
って部分 meaning and sentence translation
What is the kanji for the word ずれる?
What is せっかい焼き and how does this sentence work?
Is the sentence なぜあなたがそれは開いたの? grammatically correct
When can you use の to replace a noun?
What's the difference between “biru hitotsu kudasai,” “biru ippon kudasai,” and “biru ippai kudasai?”
Is それ何語 the informal version of それは何語ですか?
Why isn't the う (u) in どうして being pronounced?
Colloquial contraction “出しゃ[あ]” [duplicate]
If someone says you're being silly and you don't know why, should you ask 何ですか？ or なぜですか？
Question about the word 苦しみ抜いた in the sentence 苦しみ抜いた結果、勝利をもぎ取った
What's the difference between 工事 and 建設?
what does “同士な” mean in this sentence [duplicate]
Would this be plural or singular?
Deceased 7-yr old referred to as さん on the news, then as ちゃん later on
Confusion regarding “〜てからでないと・・・”
About それも usage
Word lists/sources for pitch accent in Middle Japanese
人間は普通ここに来れんのになあ I Know it means Humans Cannot Come here usually
Why are る verbs missing the imperative in the ます form while う verbs have it?
verb-casual ような (possible translation)
How to construct a sentence that’s correct, using についての?
In the phrase いかないで (Ikanaide), what's the function of で (de)? [duplicate]
What is the difference between “を” and “は”? Can I say both “お茶を飲みます。” and “お茶は飲みます。”?
The sentence structure of “てもいない”
Why is the causative used for a transitive verb in this case?
How do I write out a multiple choice question in Japanese?
When do you use your own name to refer to yourself?
Snakes! Word/Reading Choice — 蛇: へび vs じゃ vs くちなわ
Can “The thing is (that)…” be translated as 〜のです, 〜のだ, 〜んです or 〜んだ?
Meaning/use of ように in this sentence
Meaning of アウト in this sentence
Why does 前 mean “past” in terms of time, but “forward” in terms of direction?
Where does “行かれん” come from and what are its characteristics?
だけじゃ〜ない grammar question
What’s the difference between でかい(イ形) and 巨大(ナ形)?
How to express “play on guitar”?
Listing things off: Using Hitotsu repeatedly
し at the end of the sentence
How to properly use particles in translating the following sentence? [closed]
～のも当然だ , use of も to soften
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
When is it ok to use ドロー instead of 描く?
How to say “The other sister” and “I don't have any brothers”
how to write a Indian name 'Agrawal' in Japanese language?
How should I translate “power distance”?
How would you reply to 'よかったら'?
Conjunction し and particle も
も particle — “exclamation” special usage, も/と nuance distinction [duplicate]
やばたにえん(yabatanien) explanation?
Trouble understanding different meanings of べつに
Do radicals mean different things in Japanese and Chinese
Usage of 〜とき: different nuances
What does Puu / プー mean?
“Are you awake”: better [目]{め}を[覚]{さ}まして or 起きてますか?
Can’t identify the kanij in 人の上には〇てぬぞ
How to translate in katakana この正確な瞬間に私 - が生きている?
Many Usages of the term “you ni” in conversational speech [closed]
Why 親切 is not usually used when referring to one’s own family or close friends?
Using 'Wa' and 'O' particles
Why is 「～といわず」 the correct expression in this sentence?
Talking about contextual things… Which Pronouns to use?
この正角な时间に : “right” can be intended as “right now” or is it just “correct”?
Why do we need “は” in “とは思う”
I can't translate 天吼
Can't understand what they're saying (listening)
Usages of Kanou and meaning of shitsudou
Particle to use with 跳ね上がる
What's a good way to translate “What does it mean to be Japanese?”
「卯月」 pronounced as 「うすき」(?)
できたら Mother's Day Grammar Breakdown
What is the difference between koi, ai, and renai? 恋、愛、恋愛
Is 気象庁 used only for JMA or any general meteorological observatory?
〜を望む vs. 〜楽しみにしている
What's the difference between saying 私は日本語を話しません vs 私は日本語が話しません?
What could 日々を応える mean?
Question with only 〜ば conditional
What is the meaning of 「れど」 in the waka poem title 「忍ぶれど」?
Is there a situation where ここの can be shortened / changed to この?
Understanding この度のご縁
Is this passive or potential form?
Write the reading of the following kanji in hiragana!
The difference between わりと and わりに
Is 増える a state change verb?
What's the difference between 直る and 治る?
What do the 「ああなる」and「気いします」mean?
Is 「老い」 in the common lingo? How does it differ from お年寄り and 年配の方 ?
帰っているところ vs. 帰ったところ (〜ところ)
Particle の attached to relative time expression いつか
光っている vs. チカチカしている
A consistent explanation about the various forms of ていくand てくる?
What is the difference between う and お when they come after an -o sound? Ex. とお and とう
What does it mean and how do you pronounce あっ?
Why do some Japanese questions end with 〜ないか?
What is the meaning of 金〇
What are the equivalents of millionnaire, multimillionaire and billionaire in Japanese?
「は」と「を」の違いは何ですか。
Meaning of: いらっしゃいます。
What does this 意識 refer to?
What is the difference between 〜と呼ぶ and 〜という?
difference between 好きになれる and 好きになる
Usage of -san in English emails
Can 無い be conjugated?
function of に after 私
非道をつくそうとする translation attempt
the passive/potential form used in this sentence
「ご覧ください」v.s.「ご覧をください」
Difference between 場所 and 所
I don't understand: あなたに口を挟まれる事じゃない
What is the difference between に伴って and と共に？
Meaning of [何]{なに}それ
Why is では (dewa) necessary in the following sentence? And what does it mean?
What is the use of でも in the following sentence? [duplicate]
Are 化け物 and おばけ really the same thing?
Is my interpretation of this sentence correct [closed]
Usage of たい in 参照されたい
What does っ mean and how to pronounce it when it comes before a character with nothing before it? Ex. っか
How is used ほか here?
How should I translate “ethnic origin” into Japanese?
Want to know if my sentence makes sense
How can I say “I appreciate your consideration”?
食べる時間＿＿ない: Is さえ/も/ででも possible in this context? (Please read further)
Why is it 二ヶ月 and not 二か月? [duplicate]
How should I translate 株式会社 into English?
When saying “was not a child” should I say 子供じゃなかった or 子じゃなかった?
Is omou transitive verb or intransitive? [duplicate]
How to translate「今日は別行動」?
When to use the counter word mei 名 over nin 人?
What is the difference between「市長」 and 「町長」?
-ish: め/目 vs. っぽい
Is the と particle quotation literal or context matters?
Two に with 行かれて
What kanji is this?
The different usage between “致します” and “申し上げます” interms of 補助動詞
Exact definition of 針千本 in the 指切り idiom
んです Conjugation
How do I type the kanji for ちゆうごく (China)? [closed]
よこす、渡す、送る/贈る、届ける: The difference?
Indicating a subject and objective thoughts of inevitability
Some help with the following dialogue exchange
How can I say “I want one of each kind” in Japanese?
What is the difference between 交じる and 交わる?
Difference between 同級生 and 級友?
Translating a sentence with a complex causative
“自然な流れ” and “サボろう” mean
もんじゃない translation attempt
Does Japanese make the distinction between “-ing” and “-ed” adjectives?
Adding the title of the song in a sentence or question
A question regarding the explanation for 「羨ましい」 in the Daijirin and Daijisen
恐れ入ります meaning on this sentence
What does the use of a dash (instead of a character) to extend a sound mean?
How do I read 心の中?
なんだけど Meaning and grammar patterns [duplicate]
why is NOT using the ~ている form wrong in this instance?
それぞれ and ずつ use and differences
How to properly denote a nuance between comparing choices [closed]
“ 肉入” next to an item on a food menu?
Help using noun + までも without ない; and とってあく
The word for “den” as in a fox's den?
Saying “I like you”: 好きって言われたい vs. 好きって言いたい
Why から is used instead of は/が?
Function of particles の and は in this sentence
native japanese do not use desu or masu at the end of a sentence
Can から mean それでは?
Does 肉 only mean non-preserved meats?
Reading and translation for “1日目”, “2日目”, “3日目”, etc
Etymology of the irregularities in day-of-the-month numerals
meaning of 振り回す in this context (referred to a person)
Shiromono means a thing or a person?
Why was 「行ってきます」 used on video?
In what context can kiniira mean 'pleased'?
ことに… at the end of a sentence
How do I say 2100 and 2210 in terms of the 100 and the 10?
Why is 河原 in 河原町 pronounced “Kawara” as opposed to the expected “Kawabara/Kawawara”?
What's the difference between という方に会いました and と会いました?
What does x円マン状態 mean?
ではないですか written separately
Unable to identify a Kanji
Is というもの just for emphasis?
Is 二人の顔はそっくりだ a possible way to say “Both of their faces look the same”?
[Tense]: Present tense and continuous tense
Why is verb (plain, dictionary form) + だろう/でしょう/であろう grammatical?
Why is that sometimes I hear kudasai (with d) pronounced as kurasai (a slight r sound)?
What does “日本語だと聞く立場になって” mean?
は after adverbs
What's the meaning of “て-form”思った in this case?
Are there differences in meaning for 「ワイルド」 and 'wild'?
Difference between 怪我しました and 痛みがあります
Understanding the の in ～ものの
How is かっこいいな used individually as its own sentence?
The significance of の in this sentence
How to interpret 喜んでもらえて私も嬉しいです
Why the adjectival form is used instead of the adverbial form?
Is it possible to use 「にあたらない」 with nouns?
What is the difference between “に”  and “には”?
What is the meaning of きたきがする in this sentence?
What is the order of the full list of kana?
What is the difference between に基づいて and を基に?
Meaning of ようにして in this sentence
Polite way to ask for help on a boss for a game?
嘘なわけ in this sentence?
How would you interpret the sentence “他人と違って家族の縁はなかなか切れない。”?
「でしょう、」 mid-sentence
How do I write sounds that don't exist in Japanese?
What does the へさうな mean in “逢へさうな”
What is a good way to translate “They mistakenly charged both the school and me for the same thing”?
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
Is it possible to add なり after the past tense (過去形) of the verb？
What does 形ク mean in japanese?
Is my hiragana readable? [closed]
Differences between 出発する and 出る
What is the difference between 知れる and 知られる(passive form)?
Literal translation of “whatever will be will be”
How to understand 素直
How to write 日付 in romaji?
気に入られ - appreciate/fond
Understanding the sentence meaning
Does the verb 表紙する exist?
Why does 悪く(は)ない give a condescending feeling?
How to use correctly ますます with a reduction in quantity or intensity?
Learning how to use Wa / ni / ga
What is the meaning of the “な” in this question?
Purpose of adj+kucha and noun+ja in this sentence
ほ /ho/ pronunciation
面 and 顔 difference?
「確か、明日は先生の誕生日でしたよね。」Why でした and not です? [duplicate]
もう一度やってみるように+と what's the purpose of it?
How to use そうに?
Mada me o mirenai
what does “ねぇぞ” mean in this sentence? [duplicate]
Conditionals: と良いだ/です should be wrong?
How to say among these things, I can only do this?
Ambiguity about -masu forms of ていく and てくる in informal speech
About 同形の別字 and its meaning
Deciphering handwritten kanji [closed]
The て form, the と and もの constructions: gerund, participle, transgressive, or verbal noun?
上位互換　下位互換　後方互換　前方互換 differences
What does “乗るもので” mean in this sentence?
How to respond to ポイントカードが宜しいですか。
Sentences consisting of only a long attribute and a noun
About より function
Meaning of long horizontal bar in Japanese
しょうがねぇ same asしょうがない
What is と doing there in “…すぎたからと…”
Help with the grammar of this sentence
What is the meaning of this “って” in this reply
Kao wa oboeta: remembered or memorized?
嘘をついているのではないかと疑った。
What does どうしてする mean?
What is the difference between 和紙 and 日本紙
N4 test question
~する and ~をする question
The Meaning or usage of the word ‘chinkie’ to indicate tiny or small in OLD Japanese language. Kyoto area
How common is こちらこそ used? Is it considered very formal?
What's the difference between たびに, ごとに and おきに?
What is the difference between 始め 初め and 始まり?
Grammar behind ending an utterance with 思って
ことになった vs ことになっている
名 vs 人 for counting people?
What is the difference between むしろ and かえって?
Is ずつ always necessary?
what does “甘えるって” mean?
What's the difference between 読み and 読書?
IPA for ふーん/んふふ pronounced with your mouth closed
規則に違反してはいけない。に or を？
is this the correct translation of the english sentence [closed]
How come kanji has different pronunciation when matched with different words?
わたしはおこられた。Can it mean both having gotten angry and that someone was angry at you?
Japanese Old kanji form
What is the correct pitch accent for ううん?
“よいか” in the meaning of “listen”?
Meaning of かまって in the following title
How to know the suitable reading of その間 in a given sentence?
~どこに書いてあるか探しながら読む why here is ながら-from?
What is the difference between もので and ので for giving a reason?
手に入る how to know proper reading
Can “ので” be used to give the reason after that the consequence is mentioned?
How do we know when “どんどん” includes a notion of speed?
How is のに used here? [duplicate]
difference between 分隊【ぶんたい】, 部隊【ぶたい】, and number + 番隊【ばんたい】
Use of Nagara if two people are involved
Cannot recognise the kanji in a cartouche 保里尾[ ][ ][ ]晴
Why are adverbs written in hiragana sometimes?
手伝ってくれませんか・手伝えませんか・手伝いましょう
Competition grades in Japanese
Possible ambiguity in function of に
Meaning of ほど in phrases like ご協力のほど , ご指導のほど, ご理解のほど (よろしくお願いします/ ありがとうございます) etc?
What is meaning of “TIME TO HEAD BA-” in English version of Japanese manga?
What does this に imply?
Allophones: /e/ as [j] , /kj/ as [k͡xj]?
Sushi wa sukidesuka vs sushi ga sukidesuka?
Confusion over 診せたところ
Meaning of っちろい
Adding honorific prefix in a compound construction? (E.g. 買ってくれになる)
what is the difference between 拒否する　and 断る
What are the differences between 落{お}とす, 失{うしな}う and 無{な}くす?
How to say “I heard you like flowers” in Japanese?
When can you use the particle さ? [duplicate]
Difference between か, の and のか
What does まっすぐな瞳 bit mean in the following?
に particle. Why is this sentences
How to translate “動いた拍子に” this?
If you learn the 2000 most common kanji, how many of the 2000 most common hanzi would you know?
Identifying the function of を here (as in のを)
What do いっぱいいっぱい and 余裕 mean in this context?
How to apply more than one adverb to a verb
What is the Japanese word for the Australian bush/outback?
What does 気が気ではなかった mean? [closed]
Does 才能にたくさん恵まれている sound correct?
Usage of で particle in this sentence: この問題用紙は全部で8ページあります
みすぎって in the phrase 韓国たのしみすぎって話
オウ pronounced as ō or ou
What does 隣村の、おかよが死んだ日にな・・・mean?
Meaning of “べつにパリパリ健康だよ”
When do you use the “な” version of the copula?
Translation of the phrase: 生きる水 in context
Why is し added at the end of this sentence?
Translation: Wear glasses to read
Translation help with a strange phrase: まるがなまな
Translation of an odd line: お喋り顔事娘と　水槽の GID
The yomikata of 十三
Differences between -kudasaimasuka/kudasaimasenka and -itadakemasenka/itadakitainodesuga
What is nami? At a restaurant [duplicate]
Meaning of “ハートは赤く染まる”
Is the ’’おう’’' in the Volitional ending of verbs related to ''こう、そう、どう'' in any way?
How to say “I have N years experience in ____.”?
Is 今日本に何時ですか correct?
Negating adjective ending with ない
Use of the も particle [duplicate]
腰の入ったすけべ連中が多いから
いいちんぽみ〜っけ！ What does that mean?
How would you emphasise a sentence like “Well, he IS Japanese, after all”
What are the differences between 女子{じょし}, 娘子{じょうし} and 女{おんな}の子{こ}?
Why is ヲ written with 3 strokes?
Introducing a subject and implying it in the same sentence
〜てまいれ in Period Drama
Question about name rules
What is the difference between 惹かれる and 引かれる?
Why isn't the verb “to have” common in Japanese and how do people phrase things without using it?
中 to mean present continuous. Why 中?
Meaning and usage of 引き- in compound verbs
What does 様子を見るだけだ mean here?
Why is ゆ written in hiragana on bath houses' noren?
Usage of な in this sentence
手にする usage? Is it a version of 手にいれる？
How to combine the honourific conjugation and て form?
Ambiguity with あまり
Is よくじゃない correct for “not often”?
「～ようか・～まいか」の後の正確な表現はどれでしょうか？
Volitional after (か)と思えば
生徒が分かる and 彼が見える and Intransitivity
Understanding a phrase - にげるんだよ
Help with translation of 今後ともよろしくお願い致します
Ending sentences with というか / ていうか
What situations can 初めてのX and 最初のX be used in?
Can someone translate this sentence please? Thanks in advance!
How can I tell if a は is the particle は and therefore should be pronounced わ?
Translating a song lyric
Katakana - チュウ vs. チュ
How to translate この正確な瞬間に - 私が生きている
In what ways is the Japanese used in anime different from real world Japanese?
How does potential form + ように differ to できるように
しかう、しかって、to think of? or to scold?
Meaning of 成叶 in ランドセル姿の成叶がいるんだぞ
Usage of と particle
Asking “What are you cooking?” in Japanese
Is ます omitted in “てしまいすみません”
What's written on this bookmark?
Which verb is used for “charge”: 取る or もらう
Do 分 and 秒 take 間 if I am talking about duration?
Is it rude to ask a question that ends with だ?
What is the difference between だから　and なので
Can te-form be used to modify a noun?
とは言わない　ｖｓ　とは言えない？違いは？ To wa Iwanai vs To wa Ienai differences?
How many is 数多の数?
Difference between 着用する and 着る
Is に required after 後？
Meaning of 何も in this sentence
What is the difference between あまり and そんなに? Are they always interchangable?
I don't understand て-form + おくれ structure [duplicate]
Meaning of 嗜み（たしなみ）
Apart from meaning “even if”, does 「ても・でも」 also mean “even though”?
Is おいしそうだった grammatical?
When asking if someone wants something. . .
Trying to understand this sentence
How to express the “Bias for action” concept
How would I say “give me xyz” without sounding too rude (or formal)
How should I translate the verb torawarenai?
Other particles with も
ここに書いた or ここで書いた?
その通りで versus (X)その道理で: Does the latter ever make sense?
How to differentiate between separate meanings of て form?
Doesn't 助けて follow the usual pitch accent rule?
はっきりとは/に what's the difference?
verb, adj conjugation/“declension” [closed]
What is 慈しみ (itsukushimi)?
Differentiating いなくなる as “not being around” versus “not being around (because of being dead)”?
Reading comprehension n2
More dog training commands
Transcribing iteration marks: kunojiten , くの字点
What is the meaning of the character in this picture?
Meaning of 桜のつばみ!
Trying to figure out how to say: 'He just wants to be held'
Formality when talking to ex girlfriend
What's the difference between complaints 不満 不平 文句?
Interrogatives + じょし
IPA for the pronunciation of つづく
What is the Little つ? What does it mean? [duplicate]
Popularity of ポッド as a abbreviation of ポッドキャスト
Meaning of 拳の山の骨
What's the difference between [沈黙]{ちん・もく} and [静寂]{せい・じゃく}?
Meaning of おく in this sentence
How do I say former/previous/last?
Does 「ビールをたくさん飲まないほうがいい」sound right?
Whats the difference between kono/kore, sono/sore, ano/are, dono/dore in simple terms?
引き起こすｖｓ起こす? Meaning difference?
How to say “have taken this class”?
How to say “including” or “it follows” for schedules and holidays etc
Can you say 'make friends' using 作る？
が in: 彼はその子供がついてこられるようにゆっくり歩いた
Meaning of シャキン or シャッキン used to support someone
Why use 「一〇点」 instead of 「十点」 and how do I read it?
言われたこと自体は気にしてないけど meaning
Asking a business contact to make a request on my behalf?
Meaning of 盛り上げ in the following sentence
Difference between Kaiwa (会話) vs Taiwa (対話 )?
Could a translation error lead to squares to not be considered as rectangles?
Why is the が particle used in this sentence?
Specific examples of tonal Chinese words rendered into Japanese
I need help understanding this に際しての昂揚はすでに収まり sentence
Can you use '死にました' for things other than people?
How can a verb be intransitive and imperative at the same time?
Is 結晶 a verb and a noun?
Is the couple 解ける / 溶ける related to the English solve/ dissolve?
Help interpreting/parsing a tsukkomi retort
Are なんて and なんか used to emphazise feelings that are not disgust/trying to look down on something in this context?
Where to put the possessive pronoun in a sentence?
What is the difference between “ippou da” (一方だ) and “bakari da”(ばかりだ)?
What is the meaning of 収められる in this sentence?
Is it impolite to reply to an apology with 別に?
Is there a difference between どのXが〜 and Xの中で、どれが〜?
'to appear': arawareru, arawaruru, and arawaru
Meaning of 噂を聞かないと思ったら
Expressing intervals of time, and AからBすると
What does の mean in the sentence after いる verb form
I don't understand the structure of this sentence
Is there an idiom for something that will never happen? [duplicate]
What's the meaning of the particle のか in this context?
Does だーれ mean the same as だれ?
Expression to ask for help or request
に->には / で->では etc
Meaning of してなくても
Saying “Remember you're still alive”
Need help with ここ and これ
What is the meaning of putting あれ at the end of these statements?
Would these uses of "ため” be considered unnatural in common conversation?
Attempting to Translate a Game Instruction Manual
蜘蛛の子を散らす-help with this idiom
How to say “including”
What does こう in 何ていうかこう mean
Sentence misinterpretation
What does ～ながらにして mean?
How do you say 'set 'or 'fixed' for this example
Having trouble parsing 「おもちゃだといいなと思う」
What is 「オンギャー」?
Why is 九時 (9 o'clock) pronounced “Ku-ji” and not “Kyu-ji”?
What is the function/meaning of this “こと”
What do these sentences mean? And why are there no verbs at the end?
Female names containing “black” and “white”
Is 足りるだけ with a negative verb idiomatic?
What do ー, 「, and 」 mean? [duplicate]
What does the phrase 「全部ダメダメなんでしょ？」mean?
What is the meaning of the characters ヨ・行ケ・ウ・行ウ・わ・ワ when written after the date?
Why do Japanese games say “Now Loading” instead of “Loading”?
How does ayakashi, あやかし = 妖 or 罔像?
Why is [好]{す}き pronounced with a voiceless/almost silent U, but [隙]{すき} is not?
How to parse “にある” in this case?
Need help with particles to understand sentences
Origin of 「~ にとって」?
Meaning of ___はんは
Understanding 人ってオーラって言うじゃない
verb-て+いたい vs verb-たい
癒やす/癒える vs 治す/治る?
Difference between 辺り and 周り
そんなだから A little help for translation
Are hiragana letters written with their small nuances?
I don't understand こちらは手が出せないのをいいことにやりたい放題だ。
Alternatives to 「…」というラベルが付けられている
Embedded Questions
いいわけないだろ — I'm not sure how to translate it properly
Do Japanese tend to pronounce some syllables ending to “-い” radically shorter than the others, by just voicing and dragging out the consonant sound?
Particle と with へ; ～へと
I understand the meaning of the sentence. I just didn't get the final “な”: 相変、人の話は聞かないな
How to actually order fast food?
auxiliary verb くれた being used in context of “having questions”
Can the subject appear at the head of a relative clause and **in** the clause simultaneously?
The Meaning of ちょっと前に
Can someone please explain the に particle in this sentence: 'そして急ぐ君の目に焼き付いてはなれない'?
The difference between 丸 and 玉
~を僕はします Question about word order
About は particle and the 'contrast' it implies
Confusion with に、を、と particles used with verbs like 感じる
Grammatic structure だれより question
How to thank a group of co-workers for their hospitality?
意向形 (volitional verb)＋って+なる
Could this sentence be better rephrased?
Question about the implications behind “私でよければ“
Why is the space so big/wide in the Japanese IME compared to the English IME?
What's the meaning of “十力所”
How do I combine “I speak Japanese” with “I like to …”?
part time job and visa vocabs [closed]
Is 寝る a stative or active verb?
can someone explain the use of で particle in this sentence: こんなに単純で当たり前なこと
…に間違い言わない - Meaning and grammar [closed]
Verb+のを meaning
The difference between に and で when focusing on location vs. action
What is this よう doing behind the verb? [duplicate]
Same person, two kanji spellings for the name - why?
can someone explain the use で in this sentence: 今日も元気で過ごせたらイイよね
How is the て form used in this sentence?
What does the phrase “日本アニメ、米中が爆買い　ネット配信の覇権争い過熱” mean? [closed]
Can I say ~~~必要となると思います?
The difference between “ぶら下がる” and “つり下がる” in terms of usage
まったりとしてそれでいてしつこさがなく Pop culture phrase
What is the difference between 前に and 先に when expressing order of events?
Meaning of 真っ直ぐ向き合う
を after particle (であるかを)
How to use 満足する
送ってくれた : Why is both “sending” and “giving” being used together here?
When to use で vs と to mean 'and'?
Could someone clarify the meaning of these sentences?
Can someone explain the grammar of this sentence?
How is the volitional + と pair being used in the sentence “たとえ何が起ころうと私は主を信頼する”? [duplicate]
DIfferences when using counters
体 as a pejorative for “person”
Did つ (助数詞) actually mean の?
How is 上 used in this sentence?
Pronunciation of words with ん followed by sokuon
Is ワンサイズ a valid Japanese word?
Are there trends in Japanese similar to Pig Latin or Martian Chinese?
Which one is correct for this sentence 欲しよう or 欲しがる
What is the difference between 脅す, 脅かす, 脅迫する, 脅迫, 脅し
Why does “aka” become “akai” in “Kuruma wa akai desu”?
「なお」は「ですから」という意味を含みますか？
Difference between 逆に and それどころか?
What's the difference between an adjective's adverbial form and continuative form?
Question about this use of the conditional form
Is it correct to use のこと with 読む?
What is the use of くらい in this sentence? [duplicate]
The meaning of よう in this sentence? [duplicate]
How is しといてあげる used in this sentence?
What conjugation of what word is ぐろく?
What does mean this sentence?
Sentence ending ってことかな
meaning of 思っていたところです [duplicate]
Transitivity of つる with the meaning “to cramp”
Confused when determining the correct subject with 思います [duplicate]
Implications of ヒロイン (Heroine) in stories
The meaning of “もの” in this sentence [duplicate]
Usage of こと in verbs
How is と used in these sentences?
Can 呉れ mean “I give to you” as well as “you give to me”?
Meaning of はぜ in this context
What sort of meaning does the word “達磨” take on when it's used in a descriptive sense?
What definition does 入る take in this sentence?
Why is いつも used in this sentence?
Could you please help with this translation?
What impression does it give to say “今日は断食です” at a meal with co-workers?
Can sentence-ending particles be used at the end of an independent clause?
Is it rude to refer to a person as 古い?
Help understanding trailing “ものを” in song lyrics
Is 「お元気ですか」 an acceptable/common greeting?
Can “逆に” be used to say “in addition”?
Meaning of と in 料金と１０００円
What's the difference between 塀 and 垣 [closed]
Meaning of こうまでも and use of 掛ける
I don't get the difference between ～につれて and ～にしたがって
Long sentence with Kansai dialect
Translating a sentence with 恋 and 愛
What's the function of this と
How would you say, 「Will you please look at this picture?」
How do you differentiate between “I have” and “There is”?
What is the difference between もう少しで and ほとんど?
“Arimasu” or “imasu” when mentioning both living and inanimate objects [duplicate]
Can a subject introduced by が persist between sentences?
What does this sentence actually mean?
Standard mathematical operations, expressed in Japanese
What are different ways to express “around”?
アクセントに関する質問：「韓国」ｖｓ「韓国人・韓国語」
Help with Japanese sentence order
What's the difference between になり and になる?
Function of と in this sentence
Seeking translation help with か between two verbs and と
Why is 漫画全部の売り上げ grammatical
AVA in Japanese? [closed]
Understanding トイレの方が来たらいいのに in these song lyrics
How to interpret 全然 + positive adjective + とは思わない
Word Choice: 咽喉 vs. 喉
せいせいすらあ Meaning
Can I use my Chinese name as my Japanese name?
勝手に, how to use it?
General Differences between へ and に
When should you use a に when talking about the time?
What does '家に、とてもおしゃべりですが、学校に、ぜんぜん話しません' translate to?
Question about verb 「ひっこんでろい」
What's the difference between English & Japanese parenthesis?
Can't find kanji for pictured characters
Difference between 越える and 超える
what is the dakuten katakana character in the image?
How to say prices in these situations?
Can “という” be considered as an optional speech choice in some situations?
How would you use the 'と思います' form to say what others are thinking?
How would you say 'I take [---] lessons'?
San, sama and other honorifics in translated literature
What's the meaning of 位 when it follows ことをする a.k.a. “to do something”?
Does “のほうが” necessarily imply a comparison?
Difference between 利かせる and 味をつける
Question about the meaning of あるく in this sentence
Meaning of AにBを+adverb+する
Parsing help, (understanding 肝心の~/ ~のは基本 / target of Xを喰らう)
Difference between に近い and から近い
What does 直撃 mean in relation to an interview?
What does 「ここでこなんことをしてられない！」mean?
What's the grammar behind 〜がいなくて寂しい
The Use of Premasu Verb + Adjective
Learning kanji readings with examples
Meaning and usage of the word “勢力図(的な)”
2 Translation Questions ( な and 所), and a Question about を vs. に when using おじぎしてまわる
A little help with these sentences
Pronunciation of 大罪
What's the difference among とばかりに, (と言わ)んばかりにand かのごとく?
Is “まひろとアバ X 于ユール” in the image? What is ' X ' in the image?
Ambiguous/non-existen verbs in this sentence
How to use ところだった to express time related events
How does というと work here?
Would someone be willing to check my reading of の in this sentence?
What does the verb after なくちゃ or なくては mean?
に in this sentence
Combining two words into a name [closed]
Is 'うつさい' equivalent to 'うるさい' in this context? Why?
Can someone explain how ような is used in this sentence?
Are there some cases where は and が are interchangable?
Why is 「の」 used in 何十もの？
について vs に関して - the internet tells me they only change in formality, but Imabi disagrees?
Japanese demonyms for each other
Is「本だけではない」the correct expression for “Not just a book”?
The use of か [ka]
Writing the decimal part of a number after the unit of measurement
どの言葉がなくなったのですか Which words are missing?
Deconstructing this format: AことはBことがあります
difference between V-てばかりいる and V-てばかりだ?
concrete nouns and abstract nouns. いadj　なadj
Understanding に correctly in these two sentences
Any difference between these three sentences?
Translating the idea of the verb “to mean”
How do I ask about books that include furigana for the kanji?
Japanese word for element
Please help me understand あなたがそれを考え直して止めてもらえればと思います。
Usage of 内 for inside / within something
How to tell the gender of the animal in this translation?
Use of たら in この権益の擁護には真剣たらざるを得ない
What's the difference between (いちば/しじょう) for 市場?
すみません came from 済みません?
Usage of なら as described in Genki II is confusing to me
Is the proper translation for あなたを構う 'I care about you?'
Is this an expression and if so what does it mean?
アレなら and というなら in the same sentence
What is the regular kana text of the image?
The subject in 洗車を終えた車をふたりがかりで拭いているのを見ながら
Would someone mind checking my translation of -だか and a contrastive は?
What is the Japanese verb for “to flex” (one's muscles)?
What does 望むところだ mean?
Question regarding structure of a sentence : use of と here?
Is 引っ張る a compound verb?
あってから usage and あったから usage
Please help me identify who does what in this sentence and check the translation
Does 私は地震が怖い make sense?
Is writing the “wa particle” as は a modern convention?
Can 何か be a question word?
Confusion with へ in a sentence
How does adding んで to verb stem change it
How is the long O sound pronounced when followed by を?
Is the meaning of this phrase correct?
quotative と without an accompanying verb?
ために and ように difference
What is the inheritance order of も and は topics?
Meaning of もなく construct
Difference between 沸騰する and 沸く
The difference between “当たり” and “につき” in terms of the meaning “every ~”
4x“は” as Contrast Marker
reason for the ね in いいですね。
Choosing に over を in 使役形 depends not solely on the verb [duplicate]
What is the meaning of 不器用で (Bukiyōde) when describing a person?
Can you leave a kanji as hiragana in a haiku?
Attempts to distinguish English “L” and “R” sounds using (extended) katakana
Is desu needed at the end of every single sentence? Also, can you add end particles at the end of every word/sentence?
What is the meaning of the dot (.) in Japanese dictionaries?
Is there any difference between ～～をする and ～が～
What could be the casual version of this expression?
Searching for idiom frequency list
Could someone please explain the correct translation of this sentence?
Listing two different object
Can いそぐ be used transitively, as in べんきょうをいそぎます?
What's the difference between よろしくねがいする and よろしくおねがいします?
What is this ザガガッと sound based off?
Can you use 頂いてもいいinterchangeably with 頂けますか？
Can I use なる with positive verbs?
Does this に mean “during”?
Looking for the japanese word for “cat collar”
the colloquial meaning of 嫌なところ見られた
Is it possible to algorithmically convert Japanese text to Romaji?
How to ask a “would/could you ever” question?
What is the official way to call females/males in the sex sense?
“ならない” usage in this sentence [duplicate]
Difference between バスに and バスでスマホを忘れてしまいました
difference between らしい　んだって　とか　ということだ。
Is 上京 appropriate in a setting where Tokyo doesn't exist?
What is the meaning of く here?
Meaning of を以って
先 meaning in words
Why is ふとんがふとんだ a pun?
Usage of のに with verb of motion
How do I address a young lady properly in person?
～にけがをする versus ～をけがする
What does みてみた mean here?
Shouldn't お疲れ様でございます be お疲れ様でいらっしゃいます？
なかったこと in なかったことにできますよ
Proper Use of “は” and “が” Noun
How do schools teach Japanese words that use a higher-level kanji than the learner is familiar with?
Is this volitional +とする?
Please help me with this sentence
Pronunciation of 何
ドラゴン vs. ワイバーン vs. 竜
What is the 'z' in kana character?
What does どうだと言うものでもない mean?
褒めてねえぞ sounds defensive?
What’s the correct Hiragana/Kanji for ‘nokuseni’
Is 雷装 a synonym for 魚雷?
Usage of なら in this context 俺相手なら なんでもいい みたいだった
Is there a Japanese universal verb for “imply”?
Help with ケ in this sentence/phrase?
I don’t understand the structure of 英語が伝わる楽しさをより多くの方へ
Use of '判宦' in 九郎判宦義経
Is it more natural/popular to use ～てしまう form in a context of “finish sth completely'' or ”do sth by accident''?
Is it possible to the negative form of a verb + “n-janai” together to form a tag question?
Is ます omitted here in 楽しい旅行をしていらっしゃい?
What does よろしく mean when not used as part of introductions?
Examples of words which cannot be directly translated into English and have potentially philosophical meanings [closed]
What does 二人 and 揃う mean in this context?
Question about exact meaning of causative sentence
grammatical and semantic difference of “嘘と思う” and “嘘だと思う”
What are the origins of “ありがとう”? [duplicate]
What conjugation of what word is 出なく?
Use of 掛ける vs する for 眼鏡 or サングラス
Difference between 〜に限らない and 〜に限られていない?
Can 理由 mean “logic” in this sentence?
流すのもなんなので - Translation help
Is a の said after the first three digtis of 10 phone number?
What is the meaning of てあげられちゃうんだけど
What are the uses and origins of the word 肌?
どうしてこの会話では、話し手と聞き手両方が「そこ」を使っているのに、同じ場所を指すのですか？
What particle (の；を) should I use between noun/verb and ～方 (買い方；歩い方 etc.)?
Can you use “anata” with people you don't know well?
Whats the Meaning of たるみきる？
Casual wedding greetings for friends
Is 「インターネットはカタツムリのように速い。」a strange expression?
Convert to Ta-Form when followed by a noun [duplicate]
what does した mean?
What does こと mean?
How would you say, “why don't you come over?”
What is a term for an attitude/life that eschews luxury or comfort?
What is this character on this shirt? [closed]
Using です inside an indirect quote
Commonly used term(s) for floor/ground/whatever surface we usually stand on
Different meanings for “endurance”?
How is katakana beneficial and or detrimental to Japanese people? [closed]
What is the difference between meaning and usage of 意味 and わけ?
Difference between aruku, arukimasu and arukimasen and such
How to say 'No Pressure'
Are those sentences correct?
Patterns (and exceptions) for 自動詞 - 他動詞 pairs
Do we really have to change particles (usually が into は) in negative and interrogative sentences?
I need help understanding the grammar in this sentence: 自分で言うのもなんだけど
What is the correct response to “Osoreirimasu”?
Questions regarding で, に
Standard phrases to use in presentation speech
What does しょーもなさ mean?
How to say “challenge” in Japanese?
Usage of じゃ in 西瓜を買うと、俺もあいつも好きじゃで両得じゃ
What does でござんしょうな mean in 馬車はいつ出るのでござんしょうな
Meaning of 誰も手をつけない蒸し立ての饅頭に初手をつけるということが
What does かけ mean in こわれかけのオルゴール?
Usage of に to indicate purpose
In which context the sonkeigo is used with the imperative form?
How to use ~~とする
Meaning of いつ如何なる時も?
Can Japanese words with kanji and hiragana in them start with hiragana characters? If so how common are they?
食べたそうだ vs. 食べそうだ, 静かだそうだ vs. 静かそうだ
V + n-janai vs -ne vs -n-desu-ne
What's the meaning of “くべて” in this sentence?
What does ２世帯５人 mean in this sentence?
Can ようにする be used without する in colloquial speech?
Why is this は positioned like that here?
How to interprete this でも?
How exactly does this pattern: 距離にして work?
Is 甲州街道沿い a relative attribute to 今の八王子市
Did I parse and interprete this sentence correctly?
Usage of しな particle [duplicate]
A word like 猫舌{ねこじた} for spice?
Topic at the end of an utterance
What does 「…間違いを覚えてしまいそう…」 mean in this sentence?
Translating ちょっとそこまでは
About っていうか&っていうの&っていうんだ
How to address readers/viewers in an article or video?
Family Household Clan
Is 良識の府 a wordplay for 参院?
What is the meaning of なす? Specifically when preceded by a color
Why is 「てふ」 pronounced 「ちょう」?
Help with strange sentence (華をふりまく, ～ような stacking)
Difference between ありき and 基盤 in a specific sentence
How to say 'Just to add to that' in a meeting
How do you say 'so' in Japanese?
Understanding the sentence あなたの学校に何がありますか
Alternative form of a Western name in Japanese
長くしました: Make long or make longer?
What is the meaning of の here?
How do you say 'He said that he went there' in Japanese? [closed]
How to ask where I can buy something
Breaking down of complex sentence
のは Vs. というのは　What is the Difference?
Why some of the ren'youkeis (masu stem forms) have different meanings when they form compound verbs?
What does this としています express?
Help with interpreting “炙り殺す” in this passage
What does 在留資格別 mean?
How to understand 余りと and 以降最も多くなった。
Is “-Nu” same as “-Zu”when attached to end of words to mean “without doing” the attached verb?
Need help understanding this sentence
How would I say “In what regard” or “in what respect”?
Are でしかない and にすぎない synonymous? Or is there some connotation?
How can I use the classical form of だろう
How exactly is a foreign name written on a hanko?
Is it possible to distinguish between 'cannot'/'does not' and 'will not'?
What does 正規品 mean?
Presumptive form and 居ろう
I'm not sure about this くらいで
What makes a person カラッと?
'Decontamination' - word that doesn't imply radiation
What's the role of ネ・サ・ヨ in Japanese Grammar?
Is it correct/appropriate to write a word using katakana and hiragana at the same time?
Meaning of 春うらら
だって, なんだって and some other interpretation questions
Does this ３度まで refer to quantity or frequency?
What does this となった express? [duplicate]
「たら〜のに」Grammar help!
What are the ''special class'' suru verbs on the jisho dictionary?
What's the meaning of まだ知り合ったばっかりだ?
Interpreting 既に終わってしまっている
Adjective + とする
Why the ta-form is used here?
Interpreting 僅かばかりの生物
What's the japanese word for manual/building instruction
Does Korean hanja usage correspond to Japanese kun'yomi and on'yomi kanji usage?
Who is the speaker in this sentence
Can I use 「さぁ…さっぱり。」 to express that I don't understand at all?
How would you say “I'm so confused”
になるほど in this sentence
What does ただいま Mean in the Context of Preparing Food? [duplicate]
Breakdown 「欲しけりゃくれてやるぜ」meaning
Is there an opposite of gairaigo, covering both kango and wago?
What's the difference between から and からには
Is で the primary way of introducing a modifying actor into a sentence?
“I hope” - といい vs. ように
Can なければなりません apply to previous clause joined with て
What is the counter for languages
Meaning of からと？
Translate Mark under Japanese satsuma vase [closed]
How to say that an inanimate agent makes something happen
When is the particle “に” redundant in the phrase “ために”
How would you say, “Why can't I have them both?”
How does one use the “[V ます stem] に [Vタ]” pattern (as in 待ちに待った)?
What does 似てる似てない mean?
What does the phrase 「学問に励む」 means in this sentence?
Does「豊富なタンパク質」 mean “abundant protein” and「タンパク質が豊富な」mean “rich in protein”?
VかV-negか vs. V | V-neg vs. Vかどうか
Do Commas Have Any Impact On Meaning In Smaller Sentences?
Need help with interpretation of 儚くて優しい
How do you say “remaining” in the sense of asking how long someone is staying in the country?
Polite phrase apologizing for irregular (written) correspondence
Choosing between 大丈夫 or いい when asking/giving permission
What is the role of 「より」 and 「かつ」 in this sentence
Meaning of 史上 in this blog
How to say “one” as in “anybody in general.”
Meaning of 引き手 in the following sentence
How to know if ～たら is hypothetical or temporal
Usage of 「と」in a sentence from Harry Potter
Combining なに　with a noun
What does 弾け散る mean?
真ん中、真ん前、真後ろ、真上、真下、真横 - How different when there's no 真 right before?
“～とでもいうのか” meaning in this sentence
What's the meaning of 私だけなのが?
How to say “Should I [do something]?”
What's the difference between 構成 and 編成?
Difference between 溺れた人, 溺れている人 and 溺れる人
Did I interprete the interaction of より and　前 correctly?
～ましょうか　vs　～ませんか
Is「球が速い」a common expression?
Is it more common to write “wakarimasu” with or without kanji?
Different inflectional forms of くれる
What does [Verb Pre-Masu Form] + [shi] do in this context? [duplicate]
U/RU verbs vs Noun+Suru verbs
How to write “tsh” in Japanese?
What does 絶賛 in 絶賛仕上げ中 mean?
What is the difference between V-るほうがいい and V-たほうがいい?
Use of の with かもしれない
The different usage of「知っている」and「知っていた」
Meaning of 閉店ガラガラガラ in the following sentence
Can we turn nouns into adverb by adding に? [duplicate]
Is it acceptable to use kanji and hiragana in the same word if a kanji character is unknown?
Difference between よく + verb, and verb + ことが多い
Is こたぁねえ= ことはない? [duplicate]
Is it correct to say 小さな氷
Filling out a cheque - 金
pronunciation, dialects/background: わたす、すた？
経由 - how would I use this in a sentence?
のだ vs. similar constructions
How can I say “I apologize if I sound presumptuous”?
What does そうではないいわば mean in this context
If から can work as an informal emphatic particle, so can ので?
Can someone please help me with these lyric translations?
Is a sentence containing two similar kanji any known figure of speech
Use of 以上 and 以下 with negative numbers
と (to) vs に (ni) in a phrase like “I am speaking with/to”
のもさーこう, イロイロ and other considerations
Is there a metaphorical meaning to this line? (心の望むままに情欲を唄おう)
「逝ったぁ」what does mean?
The nasal allophones of /g/
Why is 洛 associated with Kyoto / the capital?
What's the difference between 行動 and 動作?
I will be leaving soon
Do we really need to remember the kunyomi and onyomi reading of each kanji?
Purpose of 中 in 自然の中で
What does 富 mean in this sentence?
How to use の身で and what does that mean?
Difference between 第二回目　and 第二回
店を休んで, 電車で薬屋へ行きました
How would どこ吹く風 be used in a sentence?
Difference between だと vs と before 認める
Is there a difference between 嘘つき and 嘘つけ ？
Do you call the feeling of acid burns as 燃える too?
“I wish” は日本語でどう言いますか。 [duplicate]
其之 what's the exact meaning of this?
What does そうじゃなくて mean in this context?
Exactly whose feelings does てしまう express?
The meaning of の in this sentence: 私の方こそ聞きたいですね
も in 「Vのもアレなんだけど」
What verb should I use for “match”? E.g. Please match the answers
Is “煽りを喰らう” an idiom/set-phrase? If so what does it mean?
This might be a stupid question but… what symbol is this? [duplicate]
Parsing in this sentence
Why is causative form used here?
Is 勇敢なアイデア the best translation for “brave ideas”
あまりありません/たくさんあります
かねない weird usage?
How should I interpret this に?
Is there a perfect translation for the word tipsy in Japanese?
Help with interpreting a sentence [duplicate]
Meaning of 先 in this sentence
Help me with this Translation
Where does a hane turn?
Does 稀に have negative polarity?
Would the name Maida be considered a “Japanese name”
A question about parsing this complex passage
Is starting with a と a typo? Is ending with a し a typo?
Why concatenate three names into “PiPoPa”?
Can the て-form be used as a た-form substitute?
What is the difference between ある日 and 一日
Why is it 休暇で and not 休暇に?
what is the meaning of ほっくり?
What does 丸ごとアルミホイルで包み mean here?
〜ようにする vs 〜ようと思う
Is より used in superlative function here?
What is the significance of a repeated radical in a Kanji character?
How to combine progressive form and potential form?
Why is て-form +　見る used here?
What does なる mean in words like 完全なる＆聖なる？
Does ピンク use a な-particle?
Understanding Vよりも前
Meaning of ブラック in this sentence about work
Understanding きれいに見えるように
Rules regarding 尊敬語 through history
Nuance in the line ちゃんと活かしてきっちり役立てていきたいんです
Aでもお世話になる meaning question
How do I say “I am going to Japan for a university exchange”?
そのものと and 身としては
感じなんです, 感じでして meaning and translation issues
Is there a difference between よう and ように? [duplicate]
考えないことには　と　考えないとなれば　（新完全マスタ　N2）
General meaning of AとBのC?
How do Japanese use the pharse “その方がいいから”
Meaning of 首ひねり in the following sentence
Correct translation of 人が運転しなくても走る
What does イケボ mean?
Double meaning of てしまいます
Did I interprete this sentence correctly?
How to say “Japanese notes” in Japanese?
Difference between 償う and 補う
How do you say “That, or” in a nice way
Question to relative clauses
とこ, ってやつ, sneezing and other considerations
Use of で when describing survey results (or answers)
Does this で mean である?
もう meaning in “もう腹ペコだ”
Readings of kanji in newspaper
Meaning of […]でも[…]でもない?
How do I interpret にならないとも限りません?
What is the difference between てください and てくれます?
What machine are they talking about here?
How does 外国人にも出てもらおうと考えて work here
I cannot recognise this kana
How do these attributes work together
How does 甘く work in this sentence?
Why is と used in a seemingly temporal meaning here?
どうしたの, どうした, どうしたんですか, どうしましたか？
ひとりでも and 多く usage and translation advice
Is there any case in which 見せてください and 見させてください are interchangeable?
How suitable is “僧侶” for “priest”?
What is the meaning of にも?
Both ので and から in one sentence
Is it strange to say おはようございます to family members at home?
Meaning of 持たねば? [duplicate]
Is it standard practice, or acceptable, to connect strokes in certain characters of hiragana?
Does 韓国 mean “South Korea” or “Korea as a whole”?
Can someone please help me read this Kanji character? (picture included) [closed]
Meaning of おめでとさん
Existence of Transitive/intransitive pairs
Chaining sentences, and past form
What does the phrase “返す刀” mean?
〜てくれますか or 〜てあげますか
Stative verbs treatment
Saw this sentence in the title of an article and I'm a bit confused [duplicate]
Did I interprete this 反対してきました correctly?
Why is it 書いてあります instead of 書かれた?
causasive に and を
Difference between「行ってきます」and 「行って帰ってくる」
Meaning of も vs でも for “even”
Compound words and の-particle
What's the difference between やく and くすり? [duplicate]
Help with translation, 綺麗事 and 奴の方
Meaning of ハートしている
Translation help of gravestone [closed]
Understanding 切れやすくしてあります
其れは… and 其の… Trying to restructure sentences using both words
How would I say 'home state' in Japanese?
少しはマシになってきたな meaning
What verb form is くださねばなるまい
Meaning of 拳神降臨
About を in 再稼働をてこに収益改善
Why the past tense is used in this sentence?
Why are dogs asked to 「おすわり」 instead of 「すわれ」
What am I told here about the use of 「所々」
Use of を生きる applied to a non-living thing
How do ように and 基本的に work in this sentence
Translation of ～てどうか
What's the difference between ぬきで & ぬきの and 入りの & 入りで?
お祖父さん and 祖父さん: is there a difference?
What are the general patterns of child-directed speech in Japanese?
What does 方 say in this sentence?
What does いきやすい say here?
What does this comparison express?
How do ビュッフェ形式のホテルやレストランで and 私が思いつくのは relate to each other?
About っていうか&っていうの&っていうんだ
How would I say “The place where I come from/where I come from”
Why no んです in the following sentence…?
How does the syntax of 作って並べられている work here?
Passive form of 逃げる: 逃げられた vs. 逃げられる
How was “個” used in this sentence?
Impossible to find following kanji
How to handle というと in this sentence?
Meaning of かけられる in the following sentence or context and its corresponding Kanji
仕事が終わる or 仕事を終える
Meaning of 再現 in this sentence
おそらくきっと together?
Meaning of なし得ないことをなし得えられない
Slang expressions
What meaning does 早く良くなるといいですね have?
Did I interprete 想像がつきません correctly here?
し grammar question
こと (Must Do) Confusion
Function of ように in this sentence
What does とも mean and how to use it
X は X が patterns
I don't understand why my は was changed to a に when a native corrected my sentence
Word choice for iteration and repetitive processing in computer science
What is ファンクラブ here?
敬遠の使い方について (how to use the expression 敬遠)
What's the difference between 謹賀新年, 明けましておめでとうございます, and 新年おめでとうございます, as New Year's greetings?
Why do we need to use 2 nominalizers もの and こと in the following sentence?
（ものか）そんなばかなことがあるものか — such a stupid thing or not stupid at all?
Meaning of Apostrophe in Words Translated to English
Which is the most correct Kanji Compound equivalent to 'aji mumpung' or 'being opportunist'? (オポチュニスト、便乗主義者、日和見主義者、御都合主義者 and 利己主義者)
Are these two topics in the same sentence?
Using つける for wearing undies? (Clothes question)
I don't understand what this verb conjugation is: 見えなくなった
I don't understand the usage of で in this sentance
“時のように” versus “ように”
～しないとｖｓでないとvsさもないと
Which part of the sentence does 関連してる modify?
Help with ゃったって and なん
Confusing use of の
The -kute (くて) form
A bit confused with と in ひょっこりと
i am confusesd as to what historical present tense is, when it is used, etc
What does the name “Ashido” mean?
the different between “使命” and “ 任務”
Using にしておいてやる to say “Let's pretend”?
What does something like 'ウオエエエエエ' express?
Meaning of verbのに向かって
What does 何だって mean in this case?
For phrases modifying nouns, is the subject considered part of the modifier or separate?
The different usages of -ため
What is the Kanji for すがり in 通りすがり?
How to translate this cleft-sentence: あと少し避けるのが遅れていたら……?
is sarcastic usage of さすが allowed
How to understand おきます in this sentence?
May the force be with you
Multiple actions ～たり　～たり　する
What is the correct way to ask someone if he or she can do something?
Unusual meaning of 考える
what does this ならば do here?
What does という do in this sentence?
ゲルト - means money or not?
What's the meaning and use of しまわれました in this sentence
What is the closest equivalent Japanese word to “melempem”?
車をぶつけられる & 車にぶつけられる
Help with subject identification and conversational grammar
How to say “It has been (time) since…”
Meaning of にと思って in a sentence
What does 儚い mean in this context?
What does どうしろという mean in this sentence?
Expressing Opinions ～と思う
Did I translate the て-form correctly in this sentence?
How to make sense of '余計なこと教えるんじゃなかった' [duplicate]
Japanese idioms of improbability
What is the English proverb equivalent of 腹八分目{はらはちぶんめ}に[医者]{いしゃ}いらず and the history behind the proverb?
I need help translating as I'm confused with word usage
Why is が used here instead of に?
How do 使って　and 説明する　interact here?
tamago o yoku tabemasu
Help parsing a short passage
Do the word 場当たり and ゲネプロ similar in their meaning?
Why does “hajimete” mean “for the first time”?
Why Was Jaguar Borrowed as ジャガー?
Use of 家族 (かぞく)
Meaning of ーたりしない
What is the meaning of [風]{ふう} here?
What does 通る mean in this context?
What is the meaning of verb (te form) + くって？
ていかなきゃならん事 and にゃ
How to interprete this で?
What does こと do in these sentences?
Question about using the past form verb 「まった」 in this sentence
What are the differences between the words 送る, 出す, 届ける?
~を話す to mean talk about? Confusion
How to say “a very adult answer for a very adult question”?
Meaning of 私のことを好きにならない人が好きみたい
What does rubbing a finger under one's nose mean?
What does the phrase “そうくるんですか” mean?
Translation Help with a HelloTalk Message
Analysis of a sentence from 風立ちぬ
Meaning of a sentence with Aが言うのもなんだけど and other considerations
Is there a Japanese translation for the Chinese term, 超级?
Would I use の in this sentence?
なのに and んだけど in the same sentence
Meaning of 尻を持ち込む
What is そういう referring to in this dialogue?
The use of で and に with 座る
やる in interviews and other polite contexts
一代 pronounced as かずよ？
Translation check そろそろキツい and だかんねえ
In informal speech is か used or omitted?
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
What is the difference between 希望　要望　志望　野望?
Hypothetical situation: someone bumps into me with their bike.. what do I say?
What is the name of grammar that change noun to verb by adding (します)?
What are the Japanese names of the columns in a Kana chart? (Vowels, K, S, T…)
Is there another cheering phase to say rather than 頑張って？
Best translation of 今日も始まる
How does あるのですか work in this gramatically?
りき vs ちから for 力
「限定モデル」… Limited edition? Special edition? etc
What is the meaning of として in this case?
How to translate「じっくり見たことなかったですよね」?
Itadakimasu: connotations of 戴 vs 頂?
Colloquial Japanese Translation
Sentence with ヒヤヒヤする and てちゃうか
Are counters for houses used in addresses?
Is there an official Japanese dictionary?
how do I use と書くいてありました in different tempus
What does カラオケと遊ぶのが大好きです mean?
Combination Characters
Is this phrase one sentence, or two? How can you tell?
Is 告らせたい passive?
The word that translate to “ can” in a sentence?
What is the difference between 「とは限らない」and 「とも限らない」
Parsing help: “身である為”
“の” or “な”? Which one is correct?
What is this kanji on a Meiji era 2-sen coin?
Why isn't there の in this sentence?
Usage of particles in 明日、日本語のクラブがあるけど、行く？
In this particular sentence is 間 and 間に interchangeable?
Trouble comprehending a sentence with ~ように
Etymology of ゴミ
What is the うち in 使っていくうちに?
How are scientific names (binomial nomenclatures) written in Japan, if they are?
Problem understanding この素晴しい世界に祝福を！
What does it mean when someone uses -kun after a person's name?
Can さん or 君 be used on animals?
How is と used here? [duplicate]
How does ように function here?
What's the difference between 話 and 話し [duplicate]
Using は or が instead of を cases
What is expressed through this sentence?
What do 出ている and 中上級向け文法書 express here
What does きかい and おより mean on this question?
If a word is both a na-adjective and a no-adjective, should I use a 'no' or a 'na'
Is [馬面]{うまづら} a facial expression or a type of face shape?
Are フィ、ファ、フェ and フォ still pronounced with a bilabial fricative or just a normal English “f”?
What is じゃねぇか? What is its original form?
What does 「なりき」 mean in this context?
What do the triangles, circles, and squares mean in the context of manga?
こうして使い物になるのは俺がいるからじゃないか？ meaning
Understanding てくる in these sentences
What does “なのか” mean in 彼女 が 誰 なのか わかりますか?
what does wankyuu mean? kanji is 椀久 [closed]
What is the meaning of this テイル形
Do 山人 and 仙人 have the same meaning of they mean different things?
話を聞く connected?
Difference between ”が”はじまる and　”は”はじまる [duplicate]
What is the difference between the imperative forms of the -aru verbs?
What does お使いになられた mean
Meaning of 一人目はやはり、君になったか。, やはり and か shenanigans
Can 19日 be read as じゅうきゅうにち?
Can を used with だ/です
Using な and の interchangeably?
What's the best way to translate “cheezy” into Japanese?
Using たい-form in qualifiers
Difference between 「際」 and 「時」?
Dragging one's feet for politeness
Tense of て clauses
Meaning of 足のつかない?
“Dewa” for changing the subject
はずかぴー という意味は？教えてください
Unknown implied verb with さよならを
Anyone knows what is the meaning of shingai da na ?
Kanji radical names
What does shite oke mean? [duplicate]
明日来る ,明日に来る, 明日で来る
What's the difference between these words for 'priest'?
Relating parts of sentences
Meaning of 黙って買い
How would you say “especially if~” in japanese?
What does 時間が惜しい。この部屋も掃除させてもらうぞ mean?
Different nuances between four constructions meaning “whether or not”
Topic seems unrelated to the rest of the sentence
The repetition of “取れる” in this sentence and it's meaning?
How does this 飾る work?
How does one say 'tried as an adult' in Japanese?
Meaning of XばXだけY vs. XばXほどY
Is なの the casual form of んです or is んだ?
What does …のなんでやろ。 mean?　Is that a やる verb? is の a normalization particle? If so, what is なんで？
Is the meaning of 宝くじ contextual?
Questions relating to連体修飾
Does using 「だ」in だと思う actually serve a practical purpose?
Do Japanese parents address their son as musuko?
Particle は seems like it should be を in this sentence
How do 勉強 and という in these sentences work
Difference between やつ and こと in those sentences 不幸な事故ということだな and 不幸な事故というやつだな
Writing “リー” in Foreign Name
How does the tense and ある　in this sentence work
What is the direct translation of 深さ不明 or Fuka-sa Fumei? [closed]
Why the same counter word is used for cups and octopuses?
‘Nanpū’ (難風), ‘Bōrei’ (亡霊) and other matters
Is it allowed for しち reading of 7 to be used in compound numbers?
Does it make sense to say 寝行きます?
using の after　について・に対して
Difference between「未熟練労働者」and「不熟練労働者」
Is there a contracted/casual form of でないと？
Can 若干 (Jakkan) be used as a substitute for 少し?
What does 日 mean when used with days of month?
Why is との used in this?
「ではなく」 in: 「x」ではなく「y」を使うべきでしょうか？
list of actions + てくださる
Is the 𠆢 radical usually identified as 入 or 人?
Confusing 届ける　受身 form
A word used in fandoms “headcanon”-is there a word in Japanese for it?
Difference between し and たり
Is it true it's not natural to name folders (maybe just labeling in general?) something generic and or abstract?
Meaning and usage of -つう tsuu? [duplicate]
Inferred particles - should I infer は or に in this sentence?
Interpretation of “ならできるよう”
What is the meaning of「私のとなりの人は」?
What is expressed through もし…たら here
What does this で in でいいですか do?
What's the difference between 省略 and 略称？
Why is it “唾棄すべき” rather than just “唾棄”?
羨ましく思える　か　羨ましいと思える　か
思っています・思います・思いました
About the kanji 兎: can rabbit be also pronounced as “to”?
Particle usage of は and が in this sentence
Expressing hope for other people to do/be/have something
What is the special word for person who likes making fool of others?
Can 共に be used as a substitute for 一緒?
What's the meaning of 私たち三人? Does it make sense?
Are 変 and おかしい interchangable?
Why is it 「ロワイアル」?
What does 稀な公募 mean?
What does あとな mean here?
How do you refer to Japanese people with the same last name in English writing?
Bad maths or my bad Japanese?
Why is て form used here?
What is the purpose of では in this context [duplicate]
Can you use 洗うwhile talking about a specific part you are washing while showering?
Nuances of: ふっと、ふと、ひょっこり、 どっと、　さっさ、不意に、唐突、突然、急に and いきなり。
What is the usage of にも構わず？
Meaning of 聞いています in this sentence
経つｖｓ過ごす/過ぎる Tatsu vs Sugiru/sugosu?
詰まり vs 即ち? Tsumari vs Sunawachi?
What do you like about me?
Why the te-form 開けて is used here
Question about “したことのないことばかり”
How to stay “chest out”
Translation help - where do I put 覚えて?
Are surnames only written with kanji?
Are the Japanese し and the Mandarin “xi” really both [ɕ]?
名詞になる versus 名詞する versus 名詞だ
ということで in this sentence?
Is it OK to promote an object as the topic and change all relevant verbs to passive forms?
Is the meaning of these sentences the same?
Why does ボウル use a vowel kana rather than a long vowel mark?
Help transcribing a sentence [closed]
Meaning of adverb followed by まで
と after listing things with たり
How do the Japanese ask questions about language? [closed]
毎月の月末 or 毎月末 to represent the last day of every month
The nuance of “こと” in “まもなく雪が降ってくることでしょう”
やることもなく ; “doing nothing” or “doing nothing but/except”
How would you say you “stopped wearing” something?
Native speakers, do you recognize the kanji 謳?
Question about と
Alternate meaning for えぐい
How are musical beats counted?
Is 「~していれば」a conditional verb form?
する気 vs 積もり Suru verb + Ki vs Tsumori
How to say “famous quote” in Japanese?
Why the ます形 of おっしゃる is おっしゃいます?
Translation of “to buy a cat” vs “to own a cat”
How do I understand 「わが身世にふる　ながめせし間に」
How do I make sense of the calligraphic characters for 六波羅坂東寺会戦?
meaning of ことなんてない
Difficult Katakana Gairaigo シュート
私に言われても versus 私が言われても
What is くらんたぁのクセして?
といった vs といって. What is correct? Why?
Word choose between か and のか
Hifumi vs Ichi Ni San
Expressing 50% uncertainty
Do I need to repeat the object + を in the response to a question?
Why is it not allowed to use iteration marks in okurigana?
Understanding AならBたらどうかしら
What is って in どうかしらって?
たform+こと が/は(particle) ありますか?
Increase to X% or increase by X%?
What's the difference between あまり and ほど when saying 'so much…that'?
Please help me understand the させたくない form
たform+こと が/は(particle) ない?
Could the animal “lion” be represented by シ or by ツ
What does 行う (おこなう) mean?
What could キョン untwist to?
S1 と S2 conditional S2 being in past tense
When is と added to onomatopoeia?
Implicit grammar in this sentence
How do these two を relate to the respective verbs?
Is this usage of から correct?
Why is neither て nor ます form used here?
trying to think about what part of the sentence is attached to what… i think
Is there a pronoun for plural speaker but not including the listeners?
～になった versus ～された
Pronunciation question: bisuketto ビスケット [duplicate]
悟る vs 気づく vs 分かる Satoru vs Kizuku vs Wakaru
オタクの僕の弟 - Does the “otaku” refer to me or my brother?
The difference between douyatte and douyattara
Use (or meaning) of masu form of verb plus つく
“I have multi-lingual ability” or “I'm a multi-lingual”,how to say it?
Meaning of ぶつぶつ
Is マネージャー suitable when describing a manager working in a large business?
Can a Japanese word combine both on'yomi and kun'yomi characters?
装着 vs 着装? Souchaku vs Chakusou
は or が in the example “朝起きるとき、鳥 ( ) いつも歌います”?
Help me understand 言わんこっちゃない
「は」vs 「が」 in subordinate clauses
What does this 多い do?
Meaning of おいて in 自分がすごく年おいて感じます
に vs で with ～っぱなし
What does どうせ mean in this context?
How to say change from A to B
How is the subject of this subclause made clear?
To Underestimate: Nameru vs Anadoru 舐める vs 侮る
why does this intransitive verb use が?
Understanding 役に立つ
whats the difference between それでも and ところが?
Is there any difference between vertical and horizontal writing?
How do I parse this sentence? （年中行事について）
が vs を and the absence of a subject particle
Question about the verb 「嗅ぐ」
What is the difference between 月々 and 毎月?
Understanding the structure of this particular sentence
What is the difference between 変わる and 変化
How do you use comparatives for Japanese adjectives?
ご・おXXXいただく（？） vs ご・おXXXください
What is this と?
Does てもらう imply that a service has been requested?
The logic behind なくば
Why are some basic kanji not in any JLPT level?
Meaning of ～てもらう in this sentence
Causative-passive contracted form
Speaking in first person without saying “I”
ない in つまらない and similar adjectives and their conjugation with すぎる
The difference in use and meaning for にくい, がたい and づらい [duplicate]
Meaning of “だけに”
Meaning of きれい in this sentence
How to say “chorus” in japanese?
Difference between 連用形＋さえ and テ形＋さえ
Can you explain この建物は築100年以上たっている to me?
What is the difference between 怖じける and 恐れる?
Meaning of いいのかな and 逃げなくて
What is a similar suffix to -itis in Japanese?
What do で and ように express here?
What does it mean when someone says まあ a couple of times?
what is grammar pattern for やさしくった
True meaning of はい、どうぞ
Indicating time in Japanese: に、は、or no particle?
Is there any difference between 処刑 and 死刑?
What do these lines from リンダリンダ by The Blue Hearts mean?
What does “taka” mean in this sentence
Is てもらう・てくださる the same thing as ご・おverbstemいただく・ください(but less formal)? What about ていだたけませんか etc（て constructions) then?
what is different between “で” and “です” in this sentence?
What grammatical strucure is behind 唱えにゃならん and what does it mean?
What does これには mean in this sentence? [closed]
What does 電波調査斑 mean? [closed]
Is this が at the end of the verb conditional ?
What does 蔵を立つくらい勉強なさい mean
Confusion with pronunciation in some words: 'm' and 'n' sounds when there is 'g'
Differing explanations of 〜ところを
Help with kanji recognition
What is 奴 doing in 冷奴?
Words for Laws/Rules [法律、規則、規律, etc.]
に反して vs に反する; when to use
みたいに vs のように? What suits best?
The characters of the name Hiro [closed]
question about ったら and どうするんだろう
Reading of ___の音
Reduplication mark 々
What is the meaning of ー・
How do you handle multiple verbs in this situation?
Is this sentence right?　コーヒーがおいしい喫茶店{きっさてん}へ行きたいです。
～てりゃ meaning in this sentence [duplicate]
～かなんだか meaning in this sentence
What's the grammar behind ヤカンのある部屋?
Jikoshoukai for Interview. 「My Strength and Weakness are…」
How do these elements work in this sentence?
How do you say “My respects.” in Japanese?
What is this との?
How to translate this より
Is 場合は considered a conditional form? (and how do you correctly use it?)
Understanding 見せていただいてて
Use of する to describe one's colour
Meaning of かませるワンちゃん
What is the best way to translate 中？?
Meaning and translation of "プラスアルファ”
Is my hiragana legible? [closed]
Meaning of refrain in 青空 by “The Blue Hearts” [closed]
How do these parts connect to each other
How does this て-form interact with 見える
Meaning of 何かに挟まっても
What's the meaning of おまっとさんどす?
Why is using the particle 'wo' now seemingly optional?
Why is その used here?
when to use 〜の中で、中には
Difference between お見舞い and 薬 [closed]
Which is correct ? Kirei Nakamura or kirei na Nakamura?
Do all verbs have an honorific and humble form?
近くの映画館 vs 近い映画館
“de gozaru” in a casual speech [duplicate]
What is this に in 知恵に挑戦する
夢は〜を持つことです　VS　夢は〜を持ちたいです
I got my car back!
は significance in ゲームは上手いですね
Can someone proofread these paragraphs [closed]
How does this 今できなくても、できるとき work?
How does でも嫌でも続ける事は work here?
How does 最初の何年かは work here?
Why isn't there any “original” japanese word for “page”?
帰宅すれば、必ずお風呂に入りなさい。'When you get home, be absolutely sure to take a bath' Why is this an incorrect usage of ~Ba?
でございまして in this sentence?
Conditional form comparison (large question)
what is difference between 退職願 and 退職届?
What does this ~ば mean, is this some irregular use of the conditional?
How does one use daisuki properly?
Meaning of this sentence by a yakuza
単著・共著　対 Single-author and multi-author
Use of のってある in this sentence
Appropriate Honorifics for Fan Letter
次の「普通」What does it mean?
difference between 虚実 and 真偽
Using としたら・とすれば to ask advice
Confused about ～させていただきたいと思います
What is the meaning of 取っ替える
Question about するの
What grammatical function does 見よがし have?
difference in nuance between という、　といった
I need help translating as I'm Confused with かのような
Specific usage of て形
What's the difference between all these words for “foundation/basis”?
What does おゆ mean after れい
Using である in the middle of a sentence?
What does しようと mean here
masu/masho, desu/desho, and -tai forms of verbs
How can I understand 構成?
What does the 「をな」mean in this sentence?
What does this mean? It's the opposite of 通行止 as far as I know [closed]
Meaning of 率いる in the following sentence
Three different meanings of “と” in one sentence?
What is the proper Japanese word for the germ theory of disease?
Verbs for animal noises in Japanese?
この vs こちら/こっち? Help me please!
Is this how you say “I am irritated with you”?
Attack on Titan use of 一体
How should I interpret　どうなりたっかたんだろう
What does シンメ状態 mean?
grammar of ～ちゃいましょう
What is the word for FISH in Japanese? Sakana or Uo?
How do i use ある/いる?
How does はっとばすぞ translate as “Don't make me hit you”?
What does the hyphen in this dictionary entry mean?
Particle が to indicate place?
Is しごと pronounced as 'shingocto'?
Are 汚い and いやらしい the same?
meaning of 「気遣ひいたすも一致なれば」
How to say something is [a colour] AND [another adjective] using て form 'and'?
Fullmetal Alchemist “let's go” translation
Collocation for getting a dental filling
Anime or Animation?
What is the purpose of using katakana in these instances?
What does の mean in 形のない花? [duplicate]
How to differentiate between rat and mouse
Wives and Naming
Can particles と and か be used together? If so what is the implication?
Two stations written with the same kanji but pronounced differently — why?
What is the meaning of this ということだ
～なあに at the end of a sentence
Differences among -たら、なら、-んだったら、-えば, etc
Questions About Archaic Japanese
Grammar analysis of “ぽくって”
How to interpret どいつもこいつも and ばかりに in this sentence?
Meaning of きれい事じゃないんだ
Usage of に after verbs
Difference between 好きだった and 好きになった
Negative Past Tense
How to interprete this 寝坊していつもと違う
Am I right about the use of the causative in this sentence?
How to interprete this きちんとした
How do I respond to だいじょうぶですか?
Question about use of セリフ in Yotsuba vol 1
Youon digraphs as a single character?
Relative with repeated subject
What does くんな mean in this sentence?
Confused about そうでおられます
How do the tenses work in this sentence
Why is こおり spelt with an お rather than an う?
What is the difference between 欲しい and 要る?
why is “わたしはお客様に満足してもらう” not “わたしはお客様に満足してあげる”
Question about the verb 失う [duplicate]
選ぶ or 決める for ”First Choose a color"
Difference between 以外で and 以外に
what is this で in front of はなした doing?
which one is correct 聞かないでよね or 聞きないでよね?
Is the scream “gya” masculine and “kya” feminine?
Is お茶を飲みます just “I will drink tea” or does it have other meanings?
What form does 会いたくなる belong to?
Why use 行き and not 行きたい?
Can someone please explain to me the grammar in the sentence このデータをうまく活用して、何かできないかな。
Confusing embedded question
Is it true that only movement verbs can take [V-stem]に to express a purpose?
Question about repeating the object after だ
What does 迷路の奥のダイヤ mean?
How to recognize the abbreviation of spoken Japanese? [duplicate]
What does くり mean?
When you introduce yourself to someone, do you say your first name first, or your last name first?
Is に forming an adverb in the following sentence? Or is it just a preposition?
Weird battle cry in manga
“ja nai” after a verb
is よう sometimes used exactly like the american greeting/interjection “yo!”?
When is Vている the continuation of action and when is it the continuation of state?
Does ばかり (meaning 'just happened') have to be a voluntary action (like たところ?)
Missing Watashi from Textbook Translation
Why is “な” in “円滑な活動を助ける” not “に”?
How to greet your workmates casually in Japanese IT field office?
Why is there に in 頭痛に障る？
How to say “many” in “There are many wheat fields” in Japanese? (たくさん or いっぱい?)
A sentence where the conjugation in the past tense confounds me
Verbs Which Change Form but not Meaning
Translation of うらめしや
Can hiragana & katakana “spell” the sounds of all Japonic, etc. topolects?
How would I say “It's nice, right?” In Japanese?
Writing a date range in vertical format
Verify meaning of sentence [closed]
The etymology and meaning of Oss, Osu, Ossu
Is a phoneme nasalized when it has long sound?
How would you use つもり with する verbs? のつもり or するつもり?
Metaphorical use of 害虫
How do you say that you have/do not have a body part
Clarifying another sentence from the global warming article [closed]
What does 数% mean in 数%程度でしかなく?
should 投げ槍 be used or 投げ遣り？
What is the difference between 「中止」and 「停止」?
世界の年平均気温の偏差の経年変化 meaning
What does this type of sentence structure (Verb- dictionary form+のも（は）もっともだ) mean
usage of 「こってるな」
What would be a correct term to describe a “cheesy” line?
How does this construction work?
Does this ところ bear the meaning of “thing” here?
What is this 「お忘れ物ございませんように」
Help with these repetitive patterns
Why are において・における necessary?
What's the un-contracted form of 何を言うてんねん?
Is ”えんりょしなさい” correct
Is “railroad crossing” meant with 踏切 here?
Could someone help me with this word (や)やかん please?
Language Encoding difference in Chrome
What is the word for “to furrow” in terms of eyebrows?
when is ん pronounced as “m”?
Why 寝たよう instead of 寝そう in this example
など after verb phrase
How do you read these kanji 年々?
How to treat embedded questions and が
what does までに mean in this sentence?
What is ねぇたぁ in 判らねぇたぁ?
Difference between AからBで and AからBまで
What is ととと in this sentence?
How does one say “It was probably enough”?
Uncertainties about this sentence: 「一番長い方は15年、短い方でも6年はいらっしゃるそうです。」
The correct pronunciation of this phrase?
Please help with this text
An additional て for some reason [duplicate]
Deconstructing this sentence
Why is there two different ways of writing the 衣 component?
技術的な質問(HTTP) Technical question
What is the equivalent of 'miffed'?
What is the purpose of 手 here?
Understanding ～かどうかだ
How common is the word 厄日【やくび】？
What is meant with 騒音 here?
How is this passive and this 不思議に思った meant? [duplicate]
Japanese concepts of formality and politeness (with a close passage)
私は or この手紙は that means I wrote this letter
Meaning of 果たして?
“Neee” instead of one's name or before his name — what does this mean?
why ひどい神もいたもんだ　means “that's a mean god”?
Reduplication and words form
Examples of how to use した, しも and もと for 下?
Differences between 性能試験 and 強化試験
Meaning of ごきけんになるわけだ
Is it possible ～ておく in continuous state (～ている)?
Word “切り開く” / “きりひらく”
How do I have to interprete this passive?
Japanese word バイキング
What does それが mean here?
'Movie Japanese' vs Real Japanese
The meaning of 昭道館 vs 松濤館
Using because when the reason isn't a sentence?
How to say “Tough guy”
How can I say that someone doesn't seem happy for a specific reason?
What does question followed by です mean?
こういうの　in the midddle of a sentence
What is the meaning of 壊れる when referring to a person?
Is this character a そ?
Is this use of 「こみ」 instead of 「ごみ」 in 「ごみ収集ステーション」 accidental or a variation?
Ordering of writing furigana in multi-character words
When would you use 相互 as opposed to お互い？
What's the difference between や　and やら?
Can ところで be used with statements as well?
Why would one change from using polite form (です/ます) to using the plain form in the middle of a conversation (and change back later)?
なかで after past tense verb
Monster/Kaibutsu question: 怪物 or 化け物
Why use の in this phrase?
Is 別れる the intransitive form of 分ける?
おおい / すくない+[noun]は あまりつかいません [closed]
Can おまかせ be used to mean “random” in things like video games?
Can't wrap my mind around this sentence
行っています versus 行きました
How would I say 'near' as in, “Does anyone live near (city name)?”
Is it a correct kanji 「渡せ」?
true meaning of “jiko”
Meaning of 感じる in sexual context
What is the sound of a rocket going off in Japanese?
「～れば」 form for 「です」
Is グギイイ a sound effect?
What's the difference between 重責 and 責任?
Difference between the usage of 君 and キミ
Reduplicated words
What does バーターmean?
Can に対して be replaced with に比べて sometimes?
Why is a thermos called a 魔法瓶?
How to express the idea of “I continue to study”
Can お前 be used as a polite substitute of あなた?
Negative present endings translated as past tense
Why is the English word “studio” transcribed as スタジオ?
How to express “patronizing” in Japanese?
How to make this more natural sounding?
What is pimsleur saying (shtain desnoga)?
新完全マスター(N3)　ぐらいきれいな　vs　ぐらい高い
美しい - Uncommon in everyday conversation when describing people?
Which is stronger, ないでほしい or てほしくない
“I ate a lemon” and “a lemon I ate”
Will fully electric cars be called 電車？
Should I use は or が here?
Strange use of はてる
Difference between 六歳にして and 六歳で
Meaning/parsing of 結果的な事実
Is the word お待ちになっております not a legit Japanese phrase?
What are the description of the following Japanese company leaves? (交通遮断休暇、予防休暇)
The grammar behind っぱなし
Can について be used in the sense of “(judging) from”?
What does 微力を尽くします。mean?
Grammar of すぐ医者に連れていこう
Is it ok to use 電車 for non-electric trains?
I want to … With you
Radicals - components outside the 214 Kangxi (but in Joyo list)
Difference between ～のことを書いた本 and ～のことを書かれた本
Historically, how would a military lord and his direct subordinate address each other? [closed]
How do you say “stopped playing piano” by using やめる?
Saying “I do X so that I am able to do Y”
Potential verb + でも: meaning?
What are the differences between わけ and 理由?
Tanuki. Red panda or raccoon dog?
What is the formal expression of 住んでんだ
Naming things after people
とし in this sentence, among other problems
Origin of じゃ as contraction of では
why does 対する sometimes translate to `for` and sometimes `towards`
What does 様 mean here?
Internet vocabulary: Is 落ちる an equivalent of “being AFK”?
和製【わせい】、和語【わご】。。。わt's the diff?
How to write “I am (name)” using hiragana?
How do you say “If only things were different”?
「〜に関するN」vs 「〜に関してのN」
Use of なら in this context - Concerning?
How to express “When it comes to”?
Can the auxiliary ～やがる be used with passive voice?
how to use 年をめどに
Particles that goes with 案内 in a ~てあげる sentence
What does 「のではないか」really mean in “血が滲む「のではないかという」くらい強く握り締めた拳 ”
Is top-to-bottom, left-to-right writing order common in Japanese calligraphy?
Position of volitional form and scope of かな ending
How do you say 'the will to live' in Japanese?
What is this 行ってまいります
How does the passive function in this sentence
Purpose of ができないと in this sentence “「まああたしも今、心身共に鍛え直している最中だからね、あれぐらいはできないと」”
How to use 終助詞 -わ
What is the meaning of 拝承致します?
How to use じゃ in grammar?
また上手くなってく 理由の Why is there a く after なって?
Meaning of に in ～にできる
How to translate “希望し　努力し　感謝して生きる” into English?
“なんてこったい こりゃいったい” is this some kind of slang?
Why use に in 元気にしてたか？
Undertstanding ８８歳の草間彌生さんは水玉の絵などが有名な芸術家で
About ておいてね, what does it mean?
How to say “unwanted” in terms of a person being unwanted
Grammar in「ぶいぶい言わせる」
How do I call the 巾 radical?
Why would someone write “為” , “貴方” and “又” rather than use ため、あなた、また?
Confusing use of 聞く in this sentence
Difference between 入口 and 入り口
When using 比べる, should I use を or が for the object being compared?
Translation help
Usage of というのに in this sentence
Difference in Nuance: 嬉しい vs. 喜ぶ , 幸せ vs. 幸い vs. 幸福
What does 必要最小限にお願いします。 mean?
Question about もらう／いただく
Does 多分 carry a degree of certainty equal to or greater than 50%?
How do you write “hacker” in Japanese in 2017?… (where hacker doesn't have an evil connotation)
“correct” formation of questions
What is オー・マイ・ガブリーヌ?
What does してた in 元気してた means?
what やる after command form means?
Any more examples of ここ as a time reference?
I know that the word 広し means 広い, but which rule or grammar is included?
などということは vs などというのは, is first one used to “physical things” and second one to “activities”?
痛い目にあう Is this literally meant to mean "You're gonna get a hurt/black eye?
How did 本 come to mean “this?”
Whats is the meaning of って in this?
why there is an “を” in 「運転免許は持っているけれど、車を全然運転しない人たちのことをそう呼ぶんです」
ものに in this sentence
て form and number, what does it mean example: “ザーレスが滅んで千年”
Why are Japanese characters not used in equations?
Concept of using だ and sentence structure
Grammar of “なかれ”
Word Choice: “is put”
meaning and authenticity of Japanese proverb about shrimp and jellyfish
What is the difference in pronunciation between [桃]{もも} and [腿]{もも}?
わけ in this sentence?
Using も or は/が in し sentences
“must have been” construction
What does this artist's name mean? 光収容の倉庫
How to interprete these elements
Regarding ようか and the role of か in it
Meaning of this passage?
Grammar analysis of “ぽくって”
What is the origin of the term _akachinki_, borrowed into Korean as _akkajinki_? (Meaning “Mercurochrome” or “Merbromin”)
How to say “I hope to be back in Japan sometime next year”
Why is the Japanese title of Dante's “Divine Comedy” 『神曲』?
Looking for words with alternative kanji choices
Concatenating an i-adj with a no-adj/noun
what does this のって mean?
とまる / とめる and such pairs of verbs
Reduplication words
What does 一色 mean in this context?
Difference between ので and て Form?
What does 'とした’ mean in this sentence?
What's wrong with my sentence?
What does the volitional for do in this sentence: 今までリーゼには見せたことの無いであろう優しい目
Connotation of 行きますか vs 行きましょうか
I have a doubt about this sentence that i found in a book : 太古から続く闇が降り落ちるよりな部屋が現れる
How should I write my name using Katakana?
What does 思うところがあった mean in そして元々身体が弱かった母が二年前に病気で亡くなった時、リーゼも思うところがあったのだろう。以来リーゼは叔母夫婦の元で家事手伝いをしている。
Is this translated right? [closed]
Help with looking up “adari”
Can't understand this kanji use in my song lyrics
A question about the particle used with potential form
Why is there volitional form and か in this sentence: 筋肉痛に悩まされつつも一通り終え、そろそろ家に戻ろうかというところにリーゼがやってきた。
Why is this こと there?
刺客 - 暗殺者 - 兇手 - 兇漢 - 殺し屋 - 殺人 - 人殺し - 殺害者 - 殺人犯 / Words difference
連れ添う　and 結婚-Is there a difference in nuance
Need help on pronunciation
Japanese sentence [closed]
translation explanation
Trying to translate “さすがに悪事を働いてそれを自分で解決するなんて真似はしない” as close to Japanese as possible
Usage of Donojiten (々)
What part of speech is スティール製?
the logic behind “te” in “chotto matte te”
Two different katakana for 'wo' in the Genki textbook
Why is 切 on microwaves instead of 分?
My Japanese is rusty
What's the difference between ～みたい and ～っぽい in the following sentences?
verb + としよう; verb (non volitional) + とする, what is it used for?
Nuance of ね vs よ in the phrase “I miss you”
What does 小職の権限 mean?
Quotation marks around name without honorific: invitation to 呼び捨て?
Trouble with a sentence 状況を変えてくれるのはいつだってあなたのその気持ちだってこと
時に[激]{はげ}しく - 時に[切]{せつ}なく
Equivalent gesture for “air quotes” in Japanese?
What is the difference between 憧れる{あこがれる} and 焦がれる{こがれる}?
what does “ほど” mean?
ってやつ vs というもの difference
What is the difference between these two phrases?
Respect for the Aged Greeting
How would you call someone “little bro” in japanese?
How do you say “what do you care?” in japanese?
How is this sentence interpreted?
Several expressions I'm not sure about
Does 発作 imply involuntary muscle movement?
What are the differences between these words meaning “Frequently” or “many times”?
Is there a phrase/idiom similar to 'critical mass'?
How to interprete this が?
Is a relative clause a legit interpretation here?
What is this こうした家内産業?
Difference between てもいい and ていい?
grammar in: でもね、私は きれいで かわいい この色が 好き
Did I interprete 過ごす correctly here?
How to interprete this から?
localizing historical allusions (Waterloo; Honnoji)
What are the differences between these ways to say “How?”?
Which word would i use to say elegant, classy, or high-class when referring to people
Regarding the construction of 犯罪
Difference between ようにする and ようになる [duplicate]
How to interprete this きた [duplicate]
How to interprete this と? [duplicate]
ぞ is the short form of こそ?
“No” as a word-replacer for “one”
Form and means of japanese reduplication
What is the difference between 非常に and 最も?
A particle for place of action for V-2+に行く
How to pronounce 名 in 男性名 and 男性の名?
What is the difference between spellings of 組み付ける? [duplicate]
understanding the particle と in the following sentence: 人々が家路へと急ぐごろ [duplicate]
Difference between ではありません and ありません
Is “ii yo” acceptable?
I don't understand the use of ようなこと in this context
この文の「を」の使い方// usage of the particle を
Writing vertically in horizontally lined notebook
Confused by Shitai
What is the difference between に触れる and を触れる?
Does position of comma hints use of と
What does と一体 mean in this sentence
Would be correct to put だ in this phrase?
Difference between the usage of 準備 and 予習
Position of なんか in a sentence when emphasizing a negative feeling
Non-standard katakana (エナジー vs. エネルギー)
Meaning of 拝む in the following sentence
は vs. が when topic is implied
Difference between 撮る and 記録する
How formal is 唯一?
To Kanji or Not To Kanji for うまく・上手く?
can you use ありき as a な-adjective
First Message From Japanese PenPal Has Slightly Confused Me
How to interprete 寄る in this sentence
Passive form + くれる
[Noun 1]は[Noun 2]が[Adjective] or [Noun 1]の[Noun 2]は[Adjective]
What's the difference between 終わった and 終わっていた
What てやったら in のませてやったら mean?
Construction of this sentence?
What is the difference between 「だと」 and 「であること・なの」
Phonetic Mapping of the Hiragana System Used in the Okinawan Omoro Sōshi
しでかす　and やらかす difference
How does one use 「浮かべる」、「浮かぶ」、「思い浮かべる」、and 「思い浮かぶ」？
Quotation Mark Stroke Order
What are these Okinawan kana-like characters?
What is the usage of てくる in this sentence?
Nuanced meaning of 実際、いまこうやって目の前にするまでは
Is “勝ったつもりでいやがる” grammatically correct?
A question about Japanese names with “ 一 ” kanji
If I were named San, and somebody wanted to write out my name with the san honorific, what would it look like? [closed]
Pronunciation of n+y consonants
What does 「張りつめている」 mean?
Hiragana - Long vowel e (ei or ee)
が in たこ焼きはタコと小麦粉と卵で作ることができます
What is the meaning of 現箱さき親方?
I will make make my introduction short
Difference between ni Yotte and ni Taishite
Not sure how to say “I got used to it compared to before” or something similar
What is the difference between plain form and dictionary form of the verbs?
Is or was ピカドン used for lightning and thunder?
ではなく（て） with Adjectives/Adverbs
How can I explain about someone who is beside without saying their name for example “he likes to eat fruits”
Help with understanding quoting in this passage, and past events or future?
What does 得られる mean here?
-的 adjectives modifying nouns without な
What does とした mean?
What does なる mean in these cases?
Which is correct? Understanding the term マシ
what exactly does “という” mean in “健康になったという人”?
Meaning of あれこれ and あちらこちら
Why is 一日 'tsuitachi'?
Understanding the use of “を貫き通せる”
Sentence from song 小さな恋の歌
あるき vs あるく to say walk
What is the meaning of “もとになった”?
something goes well/poorly/etc
Function of “だと”
どこに住んでも and どこに住むのも difference
How does this sentence fit into context?
います versus しています
How to express “being sorry” as a sympathetic feeling?
Telling the words 口唇 and 紅唇 apart contextually
Meaning of スイッチ in the following sentence
Ending なくなる being positive?
What does オオヤマフグリ mean?
“Because” in Japanese!
Connecting の adjectives
About ではない, のか and など
Usage of beginning and end expressions in formal letters - include names?
What is this form: Vb + あう + Noun
Verb +～そう grammar
Can I say kekkon itashite orismasu?
Verb + ようなんて, what does that do? [duplicate]
どこにでもある or どこかにある
How do you say “what is like to be xx”
“What about X?”, one more meaning
How to interpret 見ても in this paragraph?
Meaning of ~てやる
The aspect of the verb 窺う
How is “sakan” (盛ん) really pronunced?
How to parse this sentence and how to understand ため?
How to say “I think” if there is more than one sentence.
How to say 'techniques' (as in cooking)
Does ご無沙汰 imply guilt for not staying in touch?
Explanation of the grammar in 逮捕しといてくれ。 [duplicate]
What's the meaning of なんや in the end of sentence?
How to say I was so angry I could kill him in Japanese
Concatenating two verbs to describe a noun
How do I use adjectives like　気持ち悪い?
What is the meaning of “いいのにな”? [duplicate]
Meaning of 道々 and 口々
How do I say “Is this person serious?”
Which clause(s) does といい modify in this sentence?
What is 心を無にする supposed to mean?
would you use keigo online?
The usage of かな and かしら
Meaning of “愛の響き合い” and “繋ぎ合わせる” in a tricky phrase
How would you say “Music I Like”? (Using Nouns In Relative-Clauses)
meaning of リスクはバネ
What does 乗ろうなんてした mean here?
What does “the library is cool” have to do with summer?
Meaning of 忌々しい
The use of particle “de”
Did I interpret this そうになる correctly
What's the nuance of ordinary ~ると and ~てみると here?
Function of “だと”
What does しまったり mean?
Meaning of 意識を刈りとる
Can someone help me identify this onomatopoeia?
How is the ことになる construction used here
kun'yomi vs on'yomi [duplicate]
Meaning of 寄せる in this context
Naming a business. [closed]
What does this quote say?
This どうして doesn't mean “why”, does it?
What is the difference between 見てない and 見たことがない?
Difference between に and が [duplicate]
あたまのいいところよ - Having ideas?
Does 「もう〜Vている/ていた」always imply a resultant state?
why は and not の?
Why does the causative verb “昂らせる” take “感情” as an object in this sentence
How can I say “I insist on paying” (for a free item) to a shopkeeper?
Trouble parsing lyrics under lack of particles
What does adding 思う to 申し訳ない do?
Can the ~ほうが~より pattern be used with both an い adjective and a な adjective?
Unsure On A Math TL
What does なにか mean in this sentence?
What is トンガリイボザル?
When am I supposed to know when to use the On-Yomi (sound-element) or Kun-Yomi (meaning element)? [duplicate]
How does かもしれない integrate into this sentence
Difference between ほとんどのX and Xのほとんど
Understanding the pattern “〜から、〜に耳打ちしてもらう”
Help with extrapolating this sentence
How is this ほとんど used?
Where is the topic in a Japanese sentence?
What is the meaning of ごちそうになってこうかな?
Can I say 小刻みにする Instead of みじん切り?
Is there a difference between sabita (錆びた) and sabitsuita (錆びついた)?
What is the function of よ in this context, and is this よ a deliberate imitation of “feminine” てよだわ言葉?
How is a word like 風雨 (ふうう) distinguished in pronunciation from ふう?
Why is it wrong to say 覚えていきます?
Is “悪い所を煮詰めたような” an idiom? If so what does it mean?
Difference between : 今見える　vs　見えてきた
How to express “They only think about themselves”
Why progressive tense (～ている) is not used in this case?
The は particle following a noun's わ?
How do you say “thank you” for work that is good for the community?
What's the difference in comparative use between ～ + の様に / みたい / が如く, etc.?
How shall I understand this sentence?
How does わかってもらえればいい work
The transitivity of (auxiliary) verbs
How to interpret AとB、Cが違う
What does 夢を作る mean here?
Is これはなまえをなにか correct?
Providing Further Detail When Using そう、よう、etc
What is the しき particle?
What is the difference between 遠い and はるか?
what does 病気なめんな！ mean?
How does this sentence work
違いを説明していただけないでしょうか。
Difference between 晴れ晴れ and 晴々しい is?
What is this な doing here?
Japanese term for weight gained in a loving relationship?
Encountered な with ten-ten
How to use many
what is the relationship between 人間多様性,, 人格 and 由来 in this sentence?
Parsing “置かれている” in this sentence?
Meaning of 「ブリった」
Can verb in past tense + あと act as a noun?
Another four words meaning “feeling”, what are their differences?
How do you say 'close' as in a close contest?
what does 主張し合う mean?
Is 内向きの really the best word to describe “introvert?”
what does 麻理 mean?
Is なんとかなる　only for positive things?
what does わかん mean?
What does 自重を支える mean?
Is this a pre-noun adjectival?
Is ことが大きい a synonym of による所が大きい?
How do we call the 3rd group of verbs in Japanese?
Meaning of と together with トラブルになる
How to interpret だけじゃ with negative verbs?
Meaning of いやな思い?
The meaning of 日本はどうですか
に行く grammar with 行く replaced by other verbs
Identification of the subject of「目をそらすかと。。。」
Should I always use を after an object?
疑問詞(interrogative word) + Vば
In the sentence「みどりがきれいなまちです」, why is が used?
Is it the easy way to remember to use が?
How can I conjugate a past-potential verb?
Why is 猫 at the end of this sentence “目の色が違う猫”
「私は日本語会話を分かってみますからTwitchに日本のゲーマーズをみます。」
違いを教えていただけないでしょうか
しばしばとたびたびの違いを教えていただけないでしょうか
Grouping verbs for simultaneously or received actions
Why is ふい written in hiragana?
The meaning of てくれん in 「アギマの領地を削り取ってくれん」
Is there a list of Japanese characters that don't have equivalent roots in Chinese? [duplicate]
Why is 犬 used to refer to “dog” in Japanese?
what is a meaning of しければ in a classical japanese?
What is the meaning of “…長く通用するはずもなかった” in this sentence?
About which topic is this text talking?
In “盛りなる御代”, how do you read “盛”
How is this たら used in this sentence? [duplicate]
Problems with these descriptions in my textbook
What does 良いところだったりする mean in this sentence?
How to “feel bad” for someone in Japanese
Help with Particles and Verb Form
What is ちゃんといた?
What does the て and た forms look like before 音便?
Is 〜でなかった valid?
Am I understanding this correctly? しないと
Is the meaning of ありあまる negative or positive?
How is と呼ばれる used?
How can the ~たい form of a verb be modified for past/present or positive/negative use?
Would I be right in reading 「私には…」as 「to me it's …」？
What's the meaning of あったかもね? [closed]
「いくらか」と「若干」の使い分けを教えていただけないでしょうか。
Is ないとダメ a stronger “must” than なければダメ?
What is っしゃ here?
いいじゃない。vs いいのがない。
Why can't I shorten 僕の好きな本は to 僕のは？
Why is 文学**の**好きな人 ungrammatical?
Usage of いる/います and ある/あります in combined words and sentences
一番 with verbs rather than adjectives
What is といやぁ here? [duplicate]
What is the meaning of よう in this sentence?
What is the meaning of “…が出ない ” in this sentence?
Can someone explain the use of だけで in this sentence from Kawabata?
Why が is said to be a subject marker?
Which phrase structure is okay to use?
What does ずっとああ mean?
Which kanji writing should i follow when writing on paper, digital or non-digital? [closed]
What does this なのである do in this sentence?
What does this カラオケに合わせて mean here
What does this phrase それをヒントに… mean? [duplicate]
Subject of this たら…た construction
How is this nominal phrase meant
What about this combination of と and や
Question ending with “no?” — can I use “n da?” instead, among friends?
The meaning of “XX GAME お客様サポート係 横井でございます”
Noun for 'love'? [closed]
A problem with this sentence 地球上の四方は人間が生活するために便宜上その概念を使用しているものだが、デジタルワールドではその世界が成り立つ時に東西南北を起点としたグリッドを使用していたのかもしれない。
How to interpret できた
Meaning of 贅沢を言う
Grammar justification for 連用形 ＋ 係助詞「は」＋（ない・ある）
How would I say something's made of something? [duplicate]
一段動詞が五段動詞に進化できますか？
How do I say I saw you [closed]
かどうか after a negated predicate
What does 訳では mean in the end of sentence?
Is using「ありませんが」correct here?
What is 無茶はなし here?
What is the difference between 字 and 文字?
What does モダンな時間 mean in this sentence?
How do you say “a little like…”
2 ways of saying “don't do” to my friend - difference?
Use of する to describe one's colour
What does ドアの開け閉めの時に手を挟まれなり戸袋に手を引き込まれないようご注意下さい。mean?
Does 「天使が好きを見るで人間は。」 mean “Angels like to look at humans”
What does 降土 mean?
これわなんだか and なんだこれ?
Why is 遊ぶ intransitive?
Grammar justification for 「〜わりに（は）」
What does へろへろぷ mean?
Difference between 武器 and 兵器
Isn't the った part unnecessary in …たのだった?
What does this say in the picture ( insert below)? [closed]
Question regarding も and ごめんだ
「開放禁止」 Can I open the door?
Questions about 話 and ＜副動詞＞の
Proper translation for 本日の宿題は無個性な僕のこと
How to interprete this conditional phrase
What is the meaning of としてしまう in the following sentence
what does this mean? から+だから？
Why use ないや instead of ない? [closed]
「食らう」と「食え」の違いは何ですか。
“Left hemisphere (wing) overview” — 「 左ウィング・上x 」
はがいたい or はがいたむ?
Why is で used instead of に alongside ある？
Proper reading of 胸突き term as used in martial arts
What does この程度 mean in this sentence?
What is the difference between なる　ｖｓ　なす?
Why do so many kanjis express idea of “hiding”: 隠、　覆、　忍、　匿、　潜?
Meaning of 電凸 in suicide context
What nuances do the も…ば…も structure carry?
What function does this で have
What does this phrase mean?
What about this ので
Better to say my 人柄 is 保守的 or 引っ込み思案?
When should an embedded question take と?
What is “接続章” supposed to mean in novels?
Usage of 付き合う in context
泣いていた vs. 泣きしていた
Is there any difference among 思, 考 and 侖?
What does 開けたかった mean?
たしかに and かもしれない in one sentence
“weather today fine but high waves” - what is the Japanese for this?
How to interprete this sentence?
What does this expression mean in this context?
Meaning and translation of 自慰 in the following sentence
微妙に大きく problem translating/understanding
What is the difference between ～んとする and ～うとする?
意味がわからない when can this be used to say 'I don't agree with that'?
How do you tell your parents and siblings you love them?
Is usage of ように appropritate in “Offer to do something”?
「のに」と「ので」の使い方についての質問です。
Use of ただいま to others who are not physically present
What does the long “neeeeee” (ねー) mean when 2 friends are talking?
What about these words without transitive/intransitive mark?
普通形／じしょ形 (Futsuu Kei / Jisho Kei)
How to express that something “must be + adj” as in “we must be strong”?
は is used for Objective 格助詞
How does 分 and として work in this sentence?
What does this kanji 亏 mean?
Difference between “seems” from past evidence and “seems” from current experience
What does 下界の結果 mean in this sentence?
Does 同級生 mean “classmate” instead of “batchmate” despite the meanings of the individual kanji?
“[…] 以外いなくない?”: what is that いなくない?
What's the meaning of 制限時間 来ちゃうから?
How to figuratively express something that has been lost/disappeared as in “where did (something) go”?
About …ほど constructions
Understanding Omitted Elements in the Body of a Newspaper Article
Problem understanding 私のにわか景気
Can 〜んとする mean “to pretend, to act as if”?
Is なんです the same as んです?
Help translating a sentence with オレにあった
How to translate 大好き as a noun/name modifier
Does 今度 mean “this time” or “next time”?
Unusual meaning of 終わる or just a parsing failure?
What does れれっ mean?
Choosing between そうだ, ようだ and はずだ
夢以上の宿命 and -でなくても: what they mean?
Yet another question on 「は」 and 「が」
夏期休暇　夏季休暇　暑中休暇　夏休み
About 「ない」 in 「切ない」
What is the difference between できる and 能う?
What does ビー means in this sentence?
「さよ（う）なら」 revisited
How to pronounce 上 with the meaning of “when”?
Male speech pronunciation changes for i-adjectives
What and when to use 「きたー」?
Is “… 半年もしくは一年間 …” unnatural?
About くれ in 契約を守ってくれなくては困る
What does ショッショ mean?
How to translate Ubuntu (and it's derivatives) to Japanese?
Strange use of 紡がれない in this lyric
Issues with this sentence
Meaning of 男性がときどき見せる[これって脈アリサイン] [closed]
the different adverbia between 'mousugu', 'mamonaku', and sorosoro
When is it rude to call someone by their given name? [duplicate]
does 辛い means both spicy and salty?
Can たがる + そうです?
how many possibilities translation of ばかな/ばかね？
Trouble with Specific lines, possible series of puns
Nuance of "わね”: whose interest does「興味深いわね」refer to?
Can I find list of japanese names in kanji with latin equivalent? [closed]
What does it 「天分に生きる」actually mean?
How can I parse も in this sentence?
What does ゆらまひだ mean?
Meaning of 頑張りすぎた
What is the meaning of 「へそをかくせー」?
一 (one) kanji onyomi pronunciations
meaning of みんべえ
Do we really need to remember the kunyomi and onyomi reading of each kanji?
About 借りてきた猫 proverb
寄らば from 寄らば大樹の陰
What does w stands for in young people's writings? [duplicate]
Use of: Noun + になります
Is causative form appropriate in the following usage (悪事に加担させるようそそのかす)?
“Please let me know if you have any questions” in japanese
meanings of 曖昧{あいまい} between Japanese and Chinese
のですませてる人 meaning
Why is “konnichi wa” written with は and not わ? [duplicate]
can any han character/kanji be used as part of the japanese writting system?
The difference between もう and まふ
Incorrect use of あげさせます？
Please help with this sentence
What's the difference between させていただけませんか , させていただけないでしょうか　＆ させていただきたい（んです）？
is the symbol 𡱝 (U+21C5D) a kanji?
Difficulty of comprehension of Japanese in a video and identification of dialect
What would be the closest native Japanese word to エラー in the context of IT?
Using Japanese with my child
Difference between “ga” vs “wo”
causative, passive, causative-passive [closed]
Confusion between 濡れ羽色 and 烏羽色
Confusion: は/が with 思う
Using 平安 in situations other than the Heian Period
is this symbol 㒸 a kanji?
What are these marks that sometimes appear above kanji/kana? [duplicate]
Is this a common use of 取り置き?
What is this Kanji and where is it used in?
What is the difference between 有る【ある】 and ある？
How do say “They use X to mean Y.” in Japanese
Help with this sentence please
Passive or active object?
Meaning of にあると？
what does “そんな心算ではありませんでした” means?
what does 寝取られ mean?
what does 賃金繰り mean?
What would the Japanese equivalent of “Order!” be when gaveling?
What's the japanese word for “take off” which in romaji sounds similar to “hashin”?
Genki question. Translating a roleplay conversation [closed]
nuances of the verb 連れる ending in くれた vs もらった
this sentence containing an attributive phrase or is it 2 separate sentences with an omitted comma in between
Can 魔力 in certain contexts mean “magical forces”?
when should one use 支払い or 支払
Japanese student learning Chinese characters? [closed]
Traveling light/heavy
Isn't いろいろ多彩な a tautology?
Which one of these sentences is more used?
What is the best word of 'Clunky' as in “clunky translation, clunky apps” in Japanese?
The reason of using 「考えすぎたあまり」 instead of 「考えたあまり」
In romaji, is りょう spelled 'ryou' or 'ryoo'?
When can “AのB” be digested down to “AB”? [duplicate]
Long vowel AND extension?
What does 結ばれ mean in this bible verse?
implicated differences between は and が [duplicate]
The meaning of やっと
Can 触る mean 'to handle'?
…だと思う and …と思う
Do song lyrics in Japanese typically rhyme?
Should I use 竜 or 龍?
Syntax and peculiarities of this sentence/text
How to say “I like to draw this particular character”? [closed]
What about these particles
Verb for “adjusting” glasses?
What particles and what verb forms to use when attached to もらう or くれる
X wants for Y to not be Z
Can't recognize one character
How to connect the elements of this sentence
Explaining directions to a Japanese tourist /useful phrases to know [closed]
Modifying fixed expressions such as 「駄々をこねる」 adjectivally and adverbially
Degrees of Otaku
Most natural way to say “absolutely not”? 決して 絶対に?
Different between 力強い with 強力
How would you express 'worth it' in Japanese?
How would one parse “金ってのは金のある[…]”
住所を読む時、なんで「の」って言うの？
Use of Dash or Hyphen in Telephone Numbers
Can 象徴 also be translated as “indication” or “omen”?
what are な and ね in ごめんね and ごめんな
How to say f*** yeah in Japanese
Reading of 年 in いつもの年よりたくさん作っています
What reading would I use for 街 in fictional place names?
How to refer to a famous writer? （-さん？-先生？）
How should I read 早々？　As そうそう or はやばや？
Would 売り手 be the right word for a store clerk? What about cashier?
What is the difference between these sentences used が and は
When is -の used for a question
“ための x ために” in this phrases
What is the difference between 前と and 前に? [closed]
What is the meaning of その点 in this context?
In the following sentence, 多分 indicates maybe or probably?
How is 「と」used in the sentence: 「地震で家がぐらぐらと揺れた。」 [duplicate]
is there any reason why “waratteru ka naiteru noka” uses first the ka particle for the first part and no ka for the second?
Is there an easy way to translate/understand 体言止め sentences?
Origin of the verb 茶化す？
Omitting “da” in casual speech
Meaning of 意識してる in this sentence
Use of 悪ィ over 悪い
Why is Qantas spelt カンタス?
Meaning/Use of 陰陽 in Japanese and differences in reading (Onmyō/In'yō)
What quality would 勝手 describe in these contexts?
Why “pass me the salt” is しおを取って instead of しおをわたして
Silent consonants when singing
Why do not all かな get dakuten? And why only the は ひ ふ へ ほ へ kana get handakuten?
On a seemingly peculiar use of 「おいおいまた」
Usage of も in a Specific Context
How do you say things like “The ________ Principle” in Japanese?
Counters + inherently plural items
Use of で particle over を
What is 何のこともかんのことも?
What does “幸せじゃない大人に説得力あるものか” mean? [closed]
Difference between 保育所 and 幼稚園
What is the difference between ～してる and ～している?
what is the difference between 合う and 正しい？
In what circumstances is it appropriate to use the word 連中
Japanese word for “savage” (modern usage)
What is the proper way to write a professional email to a business?
How to distinguish 具に with 備に ?
Real meaning of nanigenai 「何気ない」?
Meaning of プレミアついて２０万
What's the most common way to say you are bad at something?
When is お pronounced「ä」instead of「ō」？
What do you say to welcome someone into an organization?
Is には a contraction of のには or ためには and how did it come to be like this ?
What does 白く濁っていく mean?
What is the difference between 鋼{はがね} and 鋼鉄{こうてつ} (two ways to say “steel”)?
Did my teacher make this etymology for もしもし up?
Problems with elements of this sentence
Should I use 言う or いう in “はどういう意味ですか”?
“Eyeball analysis of data” equivalent japanese word
If Kanji are necessary to disambiguate homophones, how come it's still used, being that Japanese people seem to know the difference when speaking?
How does がかえ connect this sentence together?
にも after the 連体形 of a verb and sentence
Use of お in the beginning of these question phrases
断言 and 言い切る difference
What are the nuances between [死亡]{し・ぼう} and [死去]{し・きょ}?
What is the use of て-form at the end of this sentence?
Misreading Japanese text due to bad kerning (rn→m, cl→d etc.)
How the grammar of this sentence works?
I am trying to understand what chara ito means [duplicate]
What is the pronunciation of ai?
Saying “I ran home” correct?
What's the meaning of 時間のやり方 in a sentence
Further clarification on ~てある
is it known how each kanji/compound graphic design evolved the way they did?
Japanese pitch accent in songs
Why does 疲れた translate to the present tense
What is the better 表現 of meeting someone unplanned / by chance?
た ち つ て と -> だ ぢ づ で ど (ta chi tsu te to -> da dji dzu de do) - Why is it different from all the other kana that can get dakuten?
What is the archaic version of the verb conjugation しても？
Sentence translation help (「そう長く生きていない」「まだここに来て日の浅い」)
Usage of「が」and 「は」in ~くれる [duplicate]
How can I express this collection of attributes
になっている vs がある ？
Why aren't these sentence elements placed in a different way?
How do the elements of 駅の近くに壊れた自転車がずっと置いてあります work together
Use of 遊ぶ (asobu)
Are these -てから the same?
を before a noun?
Natural sentence about line (waiting)
Translate a sentence, English to Japanese [closed]
Why is there plain form in this sentence?
What's the English equivalent of ブタ in poker?
Why is “many gods” (八十神) exactly eighty?
Are there any similar words or phrases for「分かりました」
The use of ただ and だけ together redundant?
Why wa in Karaoke wa suki desu ka?
When should you use Nani / nan, as opposed to just finishing with desu ka?
Can particle と be used with 分かる?
Difference in usage of 新しい and ニュー
Choosing hiragana over simple kanji?
Odd structure - 何か　見つけました？
Is “着物デート” the Japanese for “kimono date”, and what exactly does it mean?
Does “クラッシュ” correspond to both the English words “crash” and “crush”?
How do you say [noun] “for you”?
Meaning of 多い in 去年より４３％多い３４０万人
How would you translate the word 神祖?
What's the difference between 退屈 and 飽きる?
How should I understand 〜ぬ時は?
Clarifications regarding the AをBに。。。 construction
Interpretation of “～のようなものがある” and “どうにかなってしまった”
Is this the most accurate translation of 二つめの言葉は風　行くてを教えて?
Translation of わき in this sentence
Is の上 required in エスカレーターの上を歩く
How extension names is handled in Japanese (Sr, Jr, III, IV)
what is the meaning of the particles in the sentence: 言ったじゃねえかよ。
What differences are there between the English word “memo” and the Japanese word “メモ”?
Meaning of verbal suffix ～てくたっとしてしまう
What is the meaning of 横分け眼鏡?
Wanai vs Arimasen
Interpretation of 物語にしようと考えている
Why is と used in this sentence? [duplicate]
etymology: 紅 for black as in 紅茶
Difference between にしたら /として/にとって
Meaning of 真逆, how it is different from 逆
Can みせ（店）be translated to something other than “shop”
Xenogears Pearfect works p.8 chronological year 4767
ひらく / とじる vs. あける / しめる
Would it be odd to refer to English-style tea as お茶?
adding ーすませ to the end of a noun
Help parsing this line correctly
Correct spelling of 'mono no aware' [closed]
Saying 'he went' with itta
Why is the を particle used twice here
Is 私はコリアンダーにアレルギーがある an accurate translation?
いつここに来ましたか　vs　ここに来ていつですか
What is the difference between 成熟 and 熟成?
Use of と in these 2 sentences
Why is いる used with 才能?
Meaning of the expression “大きく出る”
Parsing a NがNのNは construction? [duplicate]
What is the meaning of these words/sentences?
新しい古いうち.　What does this mean?
Meaning of 中継で観る
Need help understanding a sentence
The use and placement of だけ
Meaning of song lyrics
Interpretation of のする
The meaning of 吸口 in this context
Asking without spicy / i-adjective
Usage of Encircled Kanji
Why is it in volitional form? [duplicate]
Intrepretation of 遠慮もしていられないか in this sentence structure
Can 神様 also be translated to “Oh god”?
Expressing that something was not bad nor good, it was ok
Grammar of this sentence
What's the progressive form of 来る, 帰る and 行く
At what time did furigana start being used?
When is たら or 時 being preferred more than the other?
Is the causative-passive necessary here
Whats with this なんか
Particle usage of に in 南北に長い?
How to represent prefixes and suffixes in a L2 context
“筆順” sounds more scientific / formal than “書き順”?
Question about しなくもない
Meaning of 押す with wheelchairs
Use of でなんかいられるのか in this sentence
Help with parsing and Q about a possible set phrase
Use of の in のために?
Can anyone confirm チックン is Kyushu-ben for チングイ and give its scientific name?
What is the word for “play your part”?
気をつけなければ explanation
Meaning of ２浪してるんだ
How do I say “the other person”?
How to express this
How can I apply た form to -すぎ for conditional clause?
passive in noun modifier
use of もはや in this sentence
is お死枚 a pun on 四枚?
Question about: できないことなどない
Why is “ashita kaerimasu” not “ashita wa kaerimasu”? is the particle wa being omitted or is it not necessary?
Parsing of ひっそりとはしておらず
Which use of the て形 is used in this picture?
Difference between yamero and yamete
Translation Question—isse?
How to use わめかれた？
What is this て-form at the end of a sentence: 「まったく可愛くねー起こし方しやがって！」
What is the Japanese (onomatopoeic) sound that corduroy pants make?
What is the purpose of 「順風満帆」 used in business context?
Can you speak hypothetically without conditionals
Academic/historic attempts to create an alternative writing system similar to Hangul?
A is concerned more with verb than B
Can this sentence 他人のフリ be translated like this?
Hail [雹]{ひょう} -vs-[ 霰]{あられ}
Meaning of 立てる in どうやって皆を立てたい、立てれるとこ立てよう
Where do adjectives fit in the sentence structure?
interpretation of 自分まで [duplicate]
What is the Japanese equivalent of “at the back of one's mind”?
Exceptions to kanji readings
て in 恭悦至極に存じたてまつり
Deciphering a kanji from a mug
Pronoun collocations
How to describe screaming in a happy/excited sense?
About combining adjectives
I want to mention that replying in Japanese is ok
How does this part of the sentence function?
“お手伝いできますか？” used to ask for help
How do I ask and say “X is the nth president” [duplicate]
Phrase like “sth is love sth is life” [closed]
Confused by “~奴らをあの連中~” in this sentence
Understanding adjectives with noun phrase eg 髪がきれいな女性 [duplicate]
Siri says そわそわしてしまいます
Is the ね here a negative particle?
Difficulties with parsing this sentence
～ないかな (Negative Verb Form with Positive Translation)
I'm not sure the meaning of the first part of the sentence
How does どうするんだ function here?
Why is this written in katakana instead of hiragana?
How to express feelings about a performed action?
Can “mata itsuka” be used in casual conversation?
How to say “I want to see A doing this”?
The meaning of うがった見方
Superlatives: How do I say “X is the nth most [adjective]”? [duplicate]
Mnemonic to remember different “to wear” verbs
Why is じどうしゃ (jidoushiya), jidōsha instead?
Clarifications on だって and って contractions
How to say “a year has 12 months”?
What is this いけ
Is this で a particle or the connective form of copula? Or something else?
What's the difference between 記号 and しるし？
When to and not to use the particle の to link to nouns? [duplicate]
Use of the causitive form without an obvious source of causation
A complex structure: Xが～するYについて、～する者は
Usage of に in this sentence
Motion verbs and ところ
I need help with this sentence! 居るなら居ると言ってくれればいいのにと誰にともなく唇をとがらせる。
How to speak about “one” thing in Japanese?
What is this 連用形+ゆる grammar? How is it different from the potential form?
Is the Japanese word “pan” (パン) related in its origins to the Spanish word “pan”?
Confused about って in this sentence
Writing jukugo where only some kanji are known [duplicate]
Difference in Katakana Characters
Mind, Heart, and Spirit
What's the purpose of “し” after “買い物” in this sentence?
What is the meaning of the expression 熱い胸?
How to say “artistic composition”?
Word for “appropriate” as in dress code etc
Meaning of volitional passive form
約 得 recognition and translation
“…there is a very peculiar phenomenon of particle duplications in Japanese” (Kuno 1973)
Childish or childlike?
What are paper humans called?
私まで嬉しい is translated as “I am happy”, what function of まで is this?
Counting objects modified by relative clauses
Use of どうも　in this sentence
Function of に in this phrase? [duplicate]
What does it mean when a Japanese called you 天然？
What is the main action with がてら (in the given example)?
<動詞の辞書形>　+　がよい ―　How is this allowed?
”不細工な皮で包み…" is this a metaphor?
Help parsing a sentence
Differents ways to write 箸 [duplicate]
とか～とかする versus たり～たりする
When do you use の to join nouns and colours/adjectives?
Why も in 私も暇な時、犬といっしょに・・・
外国人登録をする時もいっしょについて　？？？ Why ついて
Is tonai (都内）only used for the Tokyo metropolitan area specifically?
What is the way 召されなば is conjugated?
When to use te form vs. で
Why is vegetable 野菜 and not just 菜?
〜たいと思う — What does this mean?
what does なってしもう mean?
What does 上 mean here?
How do you count train stations?
How to use しっくり
Best way to simply ask “how often do you”
（来る）んだったなって = should have (come)? [duplicate]
How to say “I think studying English is easier for Brazilians than for Japanese”
Problems with the function of に and the meaning of 失礼
Why is intentional form used in 「カラオケに行こうと誘われました」?
Difference in meaning between ようとする and ようにする？Meaning of のか in this question?
Why should I use わけだ and not ものだ in this sentence?
Is カンニングペーパー a good translation for 'cheat-sheet'?
What is the difference between のちがいい and あとがいい？
ねぇ、ちゃっと寄ってかない! Is the sentence written correctly? [closed]
ごめんなさい　How do I say that I am sorry in a deeply apologetic manner?
Ｗhat does っていうんだ mean?
Doesn't ～ニン（人）as a suffix imply that it is a counter of people
Weird usage of dakuten
Difference betweenすればいい and すれば
Furu meaning in sentences
How does ように work in this sentence?
What does なきゃ mean in this situation? [duplicate]
How to use the word ''Amari'' and “Juushi suru” in a sentence
「ら」 in 「平たいら」meaning
The difference between は and を? [duplicate]
Meaning of “…のもなんと”?
Can the honorific o be used in front of all nouns?
Why is ネコ (cat) used in ネコ目 (Carnivora) while the order also includes the suborder イヌ亜目 (Caniformia)?
What is the difference between wakaran or wakaranai?
“だなんだと” meaning
Why does the aikido teacher spell 一 as “yetch”?
と conjunction vs. て-form conjunction?
What's the pronunciation of か in　ですか?
Is this irony here?
What does this に　do in this sentence?　And this わ in the following?
Is the honorific postfix -氏{し} usually used towards men?
Question concerning ヶ in 一ヶ月
What is this specific way of announcing court orders called?
use of ようから in this sentence
と　particle after a full sentence [duplicate]
Problem with 傷つく: who is hurt in this dialogue?
why に can mean “and”?
Is the construction 'Verb + adjective + noun' possible?
Difference between 始終 and 終始?
Is “~の方が格上だ” a set phrase of sorts?
I don't understand what's the te-form purpose in here
Are these translations of 'metaphor', 'love', 'death', 'dream' correct? [closed]
きたんだろう at the end
What is the difference between 失礼します and すみません?
What is the difference between dayo and desu?
Is かじりましい right？
Why did the author use に in the following sentence?
What does よし！久しぶりに魚にしようっと！ mean?
usage of と in this sentence
Meaning of 文句 in the following dialogue
When is this kanji 区 used in an “area” context?
The purpose of で in this context?
Do you understand what is written in this paper? [closed]
しろ vs. せよ imperative forms
Meaning of 味を増した
Parsing of 外国人が車を運転して起こす事故
Overall syntax of this sentence
Is きれいそう a mistake?
Can someone explain the usage of おかないんだ in this sentence [duplicate]
The meaning of 恥を言うようです
Help understanding 警察犬をクビになったわんこ
What does おり mean in this sentence?
What is the difference between 市, 都市, 都会 and 市街
“可能性がある” at the beginning of a sentence?
Structure behind 気になってはいても
Use of より in this sentence
Translation Question from Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
協力する particle usage
Is 最愛の神さん the proper way to write “Dear God?”
Meaning of モロ in boxing
The difference between が and を with the potential form of a verb
Why is there て form at the end of the sentence?
Meaning of last “te” of saki ni itte te (先に行ってて)
Extrapolating the contents of this phrase
What is really the use of the particle “no”? [duplicate]
Use of さらに with 敬語
Can なんて be a negating factor?
where does this word go in this sentence?
Meaning of ~を繋げ in this context?
How do japanese people write the english word “The” in Katakana?
Why does gemination happen in many 真 compounds?
首 when fired from a job: etymology?
What does this な at the end of the sentence mean?
How does this sentence work?
What do these expressions mean?
Body parts confusion: 頭{あたま} vs 首{くび}, 手{て} vs 腕{うで}
さえ at the end of a sentence
What is the term for two kanjis, that when written in the reverse order, have the same meaning?
How can I tell wether this pronoun points forward or backwards in context
Potential following の that follows a noun
ni tsuite 「について」 vs ni yoreba 「によれば」
Please help me translate this sentence into English
Is “gen” also a reading of this kanji? 間
Can タコ be an offensive word?
Is the 女 radical ever written with the strokes くフ?
医者 or 先生？Which title is appropriate?
横書きと縦書き Is there a preference for usage?
How to read 箕 (mi/mino）? Are these just different readings or is there a meaning difference?
Stumped translating 女の戯言を真に受けられちゃ迷惑だって
What is this を doing here?
Grammatically, is a 体言止めの文 a “Japanese sentence”?
Difference between 夫 and 主人?
Using adjective's て form as “and”
Meaning of 「メリハリ」
Does 反面 require contrasting clauses?
Meaning of って in レニーって男が来て脅されたんだよ
Use of でもし in this sentence [closed]
Are relative clauses used differently in Japanese?
What is the correct tense for translating 繰り返すんだな?
Is there any word for stars only?
Why does this phrase use “de” and not “o” “te wo furu hito ni egao de kotae”?
Did I analyze the structure of this sentence correctly?
Problems with this sentences grammar
Conversation in barbershop [closed]
What is the past tense of suru (do), which would be did?
is this sentence gramatically correct? “ano ko ga futteita makka na sukaafu”
Alternative ways to say “what's that?”
Is this translation of “When are you going to that person's house?” correct?
How Are Titles Written In Japanese?
Confusion about usage of ordinal numbers
What is the difference between 今 and 今の？
The interplay of this two verbs
What does 当然 mean in this context?
Easy book on kanji / word etymology [closed]
黒い VS 黒 What is the difference between them?
How do ことになる and ようになる differ? (When ことになる cannot = “It has been decided that”)
What's the difference between 最後 and 最終?
Help to understand difference between に堪える/に堪えない/に耐える/にたえない
So, what is the rule for this construction
What does it mean a form to be “continuative” in japanese?
Difference in nuance between causative form and てもらう
~でも〜ましょう and ~ましょう? [duplicate]
how do you say “to get someone to do something” in japanese?
Katakana (potentially gibberish) “sentence” in Bibara Bibara: meaningful or not?
Translation: 多大の貢献をなし他の範とするところ
Is こんにちは a question?
How to say that a proposed date/time is OK without sounding condescending?
Why is シャワー used with 浴びる?
Choosing the correct level of politeness when translating foreign material
When is the “しりつ” reading of “市立” used?
Why is 白鯨 pronounced hakugei but 白 is shiro?
Why ga and not o in “Mari wa neru koto ga suki desu”? [duplicate]
How do you say (something) 'could be'/'might be' the cause/reason for a certain effect/situation?
What does this ため say here?
How to say “moment of weakness”?
What does 家建てる mean?
What do the connective particles do here
How does までに work with 少しずつ
Problems with this sentence
words for snail
Not subject despite が?
I found this example sentence in a book, could you explain it to me?
What happened to original, pre-Kanji, Japanese words?
そらのおとしもの - “Heaven's Lost Property” or “What fell from the sky?”
調べました versus 調べてわかりました
What is the difference between ～気もする and ～気がする? [duplicate]
What are the most common words for “to attack”? [closed]
Two ways to say “best” and “worst”: what's the difference between 最低{さいてい} - 最高{さいこう} and 最悪{さいあく} - 最良{さいりょう}?
“In case you're living under a rock” in Japanese
When is it appropriate to use what alphabet?
Are both 遠く and 遠くに adverbs? If yes, are them interchangeable?
Is “違和感を感じる” really redundant?
Difference between 困る and 困っている
How to interpret the phrase 師匠をつけるほど?
What is the thing written in grey that sometimes shows up in the macOS Sierra dictionary app?
Negative questions + の
Why does the IME give me “←” when I type “zh”?
I need help with this sentence from Re:zero
How to understand みんなしてお出かけですか?
Why this verb isn't in the dictionary form?
Meaning of 法律のとおり
Use of まだしも in this sentence
「お前が言うなの世界」をどのように解釈すればいいのですか。
Is this correct? [closed]
indirect question
Pitch accent of months?
Who is the subject and object in this sentence?
I can't recognize anything in this sentence
Will you come or go to my location?
What is this でも
What does なおも mean in this sentence?
Is the use "ほしい” appropriate in these sentences?
Figurative use of 「まどから捨てる」
Usage of plain i-adjectives or た form (悪かったｖ悪い、良かったｖいい etc）
日本語でもいいです vs 日本語もいいです
What is the meaning of すこ in ほんとすこ?
Can someone help me with this basic sentence?
What exactly is a 生徒? [duplicate]
What is the difference between 安心 and 安全?
Unclear sentence: 選を先行する取り組みを本格化させる
The usage of 一本 vs 一杯。
Question about まんず
Need help understanding a sentence I came across. Possible ては
Does 次の always indicate a temporal relationship?
数え方（ドラマのエピソードの場合） [duplicate]
Why is the topic marker often used in negative statements (ではない, ～とは思わない)?
How to translate ことになる in this sentence
Trouble recognizing kanji from a manga
Grammar question about [sentence]のに
What is the difference between 代表取締役 and 取締役?
Do I need to use の or が in this sentence [duplicate]
Use of って in this question
Are のだぞ、のさ、のだ grammatically wrong?
Is there a difference between 最高の and 最高な?
What is the proper kanji for “King's/Conqueror's will” or “spirit” vertically? [closed]
kaite arimasu or kakimasu?
What is the meaning of “僕にだって 見えってものがあるさ”?
Use of なさい in ごめんなさい
What's the difference among ~てください, くださいますか, and くださいませんか?
Usage of キャッチ vs 捕まる
What is the difference between 行きます and 行ってきます (ました、ません etc)?
What is the meaning of 攻めを自重?
Why is the particle を used in this sentence? [duplicate]
Does 「何は名前は君の大学か？」 mean “What is the name of your university?”
I don't understand this sentence もう声が出ず体でうなずいて
Translating 別として
足が遠い　does it have the following meaning?
What is the difference in terms of grammar between きり　and　っぱなし?
Doubt when translating しかも and しかと in this excerpt
Nuances? 見つける vs 見つかる
On the use of ゆえ - Difference between ゆえに and ゆえの
だろう　probably / will not / would?
Is “は” really a “topic marker”?
Different meanings of すっきり?
Towards a better understanding of など
How to say “I want; I don't want” without a verb?
Translating a sentence with 限り
What do the Long vowel rule and Palatalized long vowel rule represent?
Meaning of 地のまま
Definition of “斬った張った”
What are the subtleties in use and meaning between: 特殊, 格段, 特段, 特別, and 別段?
What does this usage of 「かどうか」mean?
meaning of 結構がち
the difference between ルandタ when the verb shows status
How do you tell when 相手 is partner or opponent?
I don't understand the premotification of the noun コ一ト
“learning” in a general sense
I don't understand the expression 葉が震える [closed]
I have a doubt about the use of ～てみる
I am trying to figure out what this sentence means but can't figure out part of it
What does 気になりだす mean?
How to express that I'm still learning Japanese?
What does 六等星の夜 mean?
I don't get the meaning of this sentence おや、変だぞと振り返ると乗っている。 [closed]
Omission of verbs into state of being
What is 願ったりだと?
Volitional form
Asking someone to autograph your shirt
What is “舎弟” supposed to mean in this context?
Need help transcribing handwritten characters [closed]
あめ が ちょうど ていしして
こども “が” ねて いますから
さんかいの工スカレ一タ一でおります
What's the difference between おい and ねえ?
Use of て-form + に
What is the difference between 急ぐ{いそぐ} and 急かす{せかす}?
When の follows particles
what are the differences between いつも、度でも、何でも
もし and たら. verbs of giving and receiving
Translation of 実に大人気無い in this video?
What does this wish stroke mean?
In a speech, should です/ます be used, or である form?
I don't understand this sentence
What does おびび mean?
I don't understand the meaning of しばらく in this sentence
How should てあがる be used？
I'm confused about the use of the adverb in this sentence
I think that she thinks that I think she is dumb
Difference between 仏教絵画 and 仏画
translating a headline, て form
Telling someone to ask/demand an action “Ask your … to …”
Understanding 'ありのままで'
Meaning of “止めようと思って止まる”?
What is a meaning of 予約 on the washing machine?
How to group days of the week together
How does -ki form of i-adjectives work? (e.g. 愛しき)
How to count the word 言葉?
Farewell letter in Japanese to a little sister
What are the kana between kanji called?
What's the difference between 売り切り and 完売?
Help identifying a kanji character [closed]
The humble （謙譲語） prefix 愚 when used to refer to own family members
Why in the expression “ぜんぜん違う” the verb is in positive? [duplicate]
What does the conjugations of んだ do?
How does 十中八九 break down to mean 9 times out of 10 when there is 八 in the phrase?
Who does お増{ます} designate? [duplicate]
Best word choice “to learn”
How would you say “Something isn't X, but isn't Y as well.”
What are the left and top right part of 叚（暇{ひま}・霞{かすみ}・蝦{えび}…）?
Meaning/usage of “送りを指す”?
Use of なんと to begin a phrase, but not as a question
What do は and と stand for here?
Meaning and use of けが (injury)
What does その正体に注目 mean in this context?
can を particle be used twice
How is the と particle used here
Abbreviations (etc.)
What's the difference between 風俗 and 売春?
Help with these sentences
Japanese equivalent of “caught red handed”?
Explanation of 四方八方
What are the grammar rules behind this clause, 「才能があろうがなかろうが」?
Help understanding this handwritten Japanese sentence [closed]
Need help recognizing kanji [closed]
Identifying different ending -な s
I'm doing well. But some particles seem not to fit. What's the role of “こと” in this sentence? [duplicate]
What is the meaning of ルンパッパ？
Translation: ところを, ようとする, 側
Can someone break down this Japanese sentence into simpler parts
What are the rules for using 最高敬語?
What's the meaning of キドクつかねーぞ?
Can the word “駄目” effectively 'cancel out' a negative?
'V' sound in Japanese [closed]
Trouble recognizing kanji
Is there a phrase in Japanese that means “anything under the sun”?
Triple Particles
What does the expression “sour mouth” mean?
Is 壊れる (こわれる) already in pasive form (受身形)?
What is the meaning of the expression まるくなる?
Why do Stereopony use Katakana for their song “Hitohira no Hanabira”?
Why だからよ is considered “girly talk” and だからね is not?
Can't recognize the kanji [closed]
Expressing the irony of the situation
translation: とか and 結構
What is the difference between Verb+ときです and Verb+ときのことです?
Temporal sequence conjunctions
is it normal to sometimes read compound kanji with kun reading
Help to translate sentence [closed]
can たら be translated as “because”?
Why is “to attempt” written as 心 + 見る？ [duplicate]
In what situations would 居る (いる) be read as おる?
What to say to in-law when their spouse has passed away
Does し here mean the “do” verb stem or is it expressing reasons? And why is も used without は?
can a word be written with different kanji?
How to say “I like watching birds”
What does とろミノ mean / what is it?
Numbering pages (ex. PAGE ONE)
が usage in this sentence
can が be used like this？
Is there a school definition of the word ミスター aside from “mister”?
Japanese equivalent to 'and/also' for part-sentences?
What is 何で (nande) in the sentence 何できた
Explanation for でもしたら vs したら
Difference between だったように and のように
What's the Japanese equivalent of having a “F**k Buddy”?
買い込む - Stock up drinks for the party
usage of 念のために for non-unfortunate things
Japanese slang － まんじ、マンジ、卍
Meaning of 大振り in boxing
どの　and　どち when and how to use each?
Romanization of じ and ジ with ji and zi
Where does the word 青年 come from?
Translating a sentence cointaining ても, と, とこ and 上 (colloquial japanese)
How to say in Japanese “I want to learn driving a car”?
Which diference are between のように and みたい
How would I write Animal in Japanese when it refers to the Muppet's character Animal
Unusual usage of にしては?
How is でも used in this sentence? [duplicate]
What does 響きがものすごい mean?
can the past tense of 来る be written in kanji？
What does the expression “外ばっか見てる” mean?
Why does 嫌い looks so much like an i adjective, when it is a na adjective?
use of noun then comma and そして
how to use ~なあ with 〜な adjective
is 丁度 only a suffix?
What means 手伝いのしているのですか
use of すんな and ってもんがある
What does とも mean here?
It it correct / normal to use か after だ?
I'm confused about the translation of these two sentences (from Japanese to English)
Why does 不甲斐{ふがい}ない mean “worthless” while 甲斐{かい} means “worth”?
When the chinese readings of first 10 days are used?
I'm confused about the overall structure of this sentence
How do I have to understand 参加させてほしい?
translating an indirect question
could someone clarify this text about the へparticle
how to use ~そう past tense
Trouble understanding しちゃア　and ending かい
'のために’ Usage - Why is 「私の ため に 日本語 で 話してください」 incorrect?
Having trouble identifying a kanji character in a comic strip
Why would you use a verbs stem (as state-of-being) rather than the verb itself?
Reading order: “Wolf and Spice” or “Spice and Wolf”?
What particle is にでも and what does it mean? [duplicate]
Problems with たつもり　and -ているつもり
difference between -なくて and -ないで [duplicate]
what's the difference between particle を and に when used for location
Strange Usage of エフエー (FA)?
How do I know which radical in a character is the primary radical?
The meaning and nuance behind the phrase “話は通してある”
Can a list's last noun help imply the common suffixial morphemes of it's sister nouns?
What does the expression “こっちはこっちで” mean? [duplicate]
When listing nouns, can you add だから between two elements to say “and, thus”?
Will he be a great hunter when he returns, or could he become one but not come back as one?
When talking about Japanese martial arts, is 師範 higher than 先生?
Words request: “Top” and “bottom” (of a page)
Do particles like を、で、に、and へ、form noun-phrases?
Can someone explain the usage of 割り切る in general?
How do I have to understand that phrase [duplicate]
か + と particles with a non-quotation verb
How do I find out the written form of a notable person given their name's pronunciation?
Meaning of 注意 in the context of advice
雨粉 pronunciation and meaning [closed]
What is the difference between the negative forms -ず and -ぬ?
Seemingly Inconsistent Particle Usage with the Verb 手伝う
Difference between AとB and AやB
How does Bylth's translation of this haiku by Kiin hold up?
What is と being used for in these two sentences?
help with translating と [duplicate]
Is だけでもいいんだけど a Japanese expression?
(noun) + な versus (verb) + な
により and help breaking up a long sentence
Can this be expressed through an alternate construction
Is it necessary or optional to omit the particle を in these sentences?
what is this で in this sentence
purpose of なく in this sentence
How would どこ吹く風 be used in a sentence?
How to write long sound to emphasize words?
using みる with the negative で form of a verb
difference between まとめる　and まとめてとらえる
Use of の (particle) in this sentence: [duplicate]
use of くらい in this sentence
Usage of 韓服 and チマチョゴリ
Can native speakers spot if a clause is relative or not ahead of time?
Is 更新予約 a valid term for a “Scheduled Update”?
Regarding classification: 分類、類別、部類、etc
What is the meaning of 振り切って in this context?
How to know if there is a space between words?
A hidden pun in さびしんぼう?
How to use ておらん in lines like 食べておらん?
Why does Google discriminate between plain form and masu form in regards to tense?
Where does the particle は come from?
How to specify that a digital file is for the purpose of printing.
Why does 何も mean “anything”?
Am I right in reading 「…のおまえ」 as “In the presence of …”?
The meaning of 時点で and すりゃ in this sentence?
ことにする/なる and ことに決める
首都 (しゅと) and 都 (みやこ)
What is かたじけのう?
Meaning of どんだけお人好しなんですかって話ですよね
Can a particle attach to a counter?
What does “夢プチ” mean?
この家は南向きだ。 is correct the translation of this sentence?
What is the difference in meaning between 練習, 訓練 and 実践?
What's the meaning of this sentence?
What verb form is the phrase '見上げたんだ' using? [duplicate]
Using する as “to be”
Reading of 孒 as ひだりのうでがない
Meaning of 細い in 彼女は食が細い
Katakana loanwords: is there data about their creation/evolution and acceptance as “new Japanese words”?
Is this sentence correct. (Beginner sentence.) [closed]
Particle と in this sentence
Contraction of ～てるのか
“you know what?” or how to change your mind
Is it customary to say いらっしゃいませ in a corporate setting?
Can someone help me with this sentence, please?
Help creating a grammatically correct statement
What is “Red Pill” in Japanese?
How far can a word be away from another and still modify it - 歪み　並ぶ　使い捨てのレール
What is the purpose of “ところ” in this passage? [duplicate]
What are the origins of the Chinese derived words?
～ことで初めて in a sentence
Is 松佳 a name in Japanese? [closed]
What does this person do on the show?
勉強ばできん - particle ば
Doubled and tripled kanji
When to use「恐れ入りますが」、「申し訳ないが」、「すみませんが」?
How would you translate ご褒美のケーキ?
use of だって in this sentence
Japanese kanjis and Chinese characters: a request for comparative stroke order
How to use better as an adjective?
How to translate ‘To be or not to be, that is the question’
分かるやつにしてよ meaning
Meaning of 氣現 (from Final Fantasy 14)
Differences between た/てた
difference between しきりに or しきりと?
What does だって mean in this sentence?
How does じゃないか modify hortative in this case?
What is the nuance of the expression “二足の草鞋を履く”
Difference between ぐらい　and さえ
Correct translation of こともない in this sentence
てんで勝手に sentence - how to understand it
sentence with まだ近所迷惑程度で済んだ - how to translate
How to understand ただ一度きり
Meaning of 前以上?
Usage of なる with transitive verb
Meaning of “何もそこまで”
不幸な方へと進んでいる - why are there two particles after 方？
Exact meaning and function of 冒頭のような
五女二男 read as "ごじょになん”？
人 - on'yomi ニン or ジン rule of thumb
Meaning of 大概 in「ボクも大概だ」?
What's the role of the と particle in this sentence?
What is the grammar behind いないてえ?
Can't understand this spoken sentence
What is the meaning of all those “w”s in email and SNSs?
How do I say “you can do/find/use A, B and C”
What does “しぇんぱい” mean?
Can もすこし遠かったら be used to mean “too far”?
What are the origins of the Japanese idiom ななころびやおき (nanakorobiyaoki)?
What's the usage of ばかり in “見たこと無いものばかりだわ！”?
Can I translate くれる in the following way?
When should I use な in “na-adjectives”?
Meaning of ということで?
How to confirm my first meeting with Japanese teacher
Etymology of 「ボンボン」 meaning “green young man from a well-to-do family” in Kansai dialect
philosophy's test
Analyzing breakdown of jukugo
Sound effect らん with unknowing meaning, and meaning of pun 裂けて　避けた
Why does the katakana ラ look similar to the hiragana う?
母ちゃんも心配でたまったもんじゃない
Is the apology truthful or not?
Help understanding the meaning of one sentence
How do you say “Everyone in my family is Chinese” in Japanese? [closed]
Is there a Japanese equivalent to English's “'Can I go to the bathroom' vs. 'May I go to the bathroom'”? [closed]
Strange phrase? 「お切らせ願います。」
A possible series of omitted words in 「特急列車は相も変わらず閑古鳥」
Translation of “社会に出るって、大変です。”? Same meaning as “社会に出るのが大変です。”?
Help with particles
Why 不便 instead of 不便利?
Referring to Group of Differentiated Objects
Two shapes of the いとへん
Meaning of verb+となる
Is “夛” an alias for “多”?
Positive and negative Loneliness
Use of Adjective + のも
Did he tell you to do/say that?
I like to do 'Verbs' [closed]
What is function of から in conditional statement?
Can a noun with adverbial particle に be used to express “going somewhere with a purpose”?
How would you say “x is exhausting/tiring”?
How come プレイガイド means “Ticket agency” and not “playguide”?
How would you say someone's on a need-to-know basis?
Why is 持っている often translated as “have”, even though it means carrying? [duplicate]
translation - how come the word “home” isn't in here
Using adjectives in simple sentence (Need です and い-form?)
Unknown katana mei [closed]
Translating English names to Japanese: to elongate the vowel, or not?
Need help with translation of 二つの点がちょうど目みたいに見える
Difficulty of understanding because of the causative form
Causative verbs in descriptions of people
How do you say: “it could have been avoided” The correct way?
What does そうするの mean here?
What's the difference between って and って言ってた
What does this mean? シャッター速度はB,１－１/１０００秒が切れます。
What is the word for a “board book”?
Usage of ～とたん and nuances
What is the closest equivalent expression to “don't get your panties in a bunch”?
Japanese Translation for Hamlet Act 5, Scene 2
Japanese Translation for Hamlet Act 5, Scene 2
What is the meaning of ～はしない? [duplicate]
How do I say “any of ~”
Transitivity of suru-verbs and the causative form to turn intransitive suru verbs into transitive ones
Equivalent of 【一人で】for a multi-person group unit
Usage of 方 to mean person, interchangeability of くれる and もらう and passive form
Making comparison between people (verb)
Difference between わかってる　and わかっている , two ている forms in a sentence
What's this kanji? 「室」
The Japanese for bonded joint
How should I translate the sentence 僕がかわりに殴ってやろう
Difference between ようだ and そうだ [duplicate]
How do you say A leads to B leads to C in one single sentence?
What is the difference of using とき and 時 in this sentence？
meaning of なくっちゃ [duplicate]
今(temporal counter) vs. 本(temporal counter)
「~ない」 vs 「無/不/非/未~」, 「的(な)<漢字>」, and general 熟語/漢語 affixes versus grammatical forms)
Questions about 僕の時計が「7時だよ。おはよう。おきろ」と、起こしてくれるのだが、無意識に止めて、また寝てしまう
じゅわっと for biting into a mandarin
けん in 佐賀 dialect
「どうあろうと」と「どうあっても」 の違いは何ですか [duplicate]
What does “許り” (Bakari) mean and what happens when you combine it with ka, ni and denaku (bakarini) (bakarika) (bakaridenaku)
“国籍” refers to nationality or the country of citizenship?
What do these Japanese characters mean? [closed]
Clarify 俺が振り返ったのと [duplicate]
Confirm meaning of 水を張った大きな箱
Difference between すぐに and すぐさま
How to express a comparison between two elements in two different fields
Use of こと in the following sentence with 果たしたこと
Meaning of 致命的な矛盾を抱えた
Confirm meaning of phrase 隙を与える
Value of が at the end of interrogative sentences
Verb “to offer” and “to share” for food
Why 浴衣 is pronounced ゆかた, and why pronunciation ゆ and かた for kanji 浴 and 衣 are not listed in 国語辞書?
Meaning of でも in 残念でもしかたない
Difference in use of words implying “decrease” or “decline”
Level name: is my completion guess right?
Usage and meaning : 寝ろ vs 寝てろ?
Does the ''te form'' literally mean something on its own?
What is the difference between '割り引き' and '割引'?
Problem in understanding math problem in japanese
Is this と (particle) + したら　or is it “としたら”
Why is there no past tense in this sentences predicative? [duplicate]
Comparing the “severity” of words of amount, degree, etc
What's the 日本語 equivalent of saying “That's none of your business”?
う◯こ versus う◯ち - which is more childish?
Is 土方 a common term for a “construction worker”?
Writing a sentence with ば〜ほど
What's the 日本語 equivalent of “~ism”? (ex. Capitalism, Catholicism, Marxism, etc.)
未然形 of である and 連用形 of だ
Difference between なくては and なくてはいけない
Meaning of 運命とはわからない
Meaning of どんな+Noun+も where the Noun isn't a WH word?
What is a ladder-like practice tool called in Japanese?
Confusion about motion towards/away from speaker
使った「日語」はいつからですか？
Difference between 時に、時は、時には
Some clarification on ~いたりもする and ~いそうな
You owe me Giri - what do I owe you?
Is term 神経の鈍い (insensitive) common?
Meaning of Japanese slang phrase「モロです」?
How are 飲んだ、and 飲んである different？ [duplicate]
Meaning of 相当おしゃれしてる
What is this で (in bold)　and this こと (in bold)?
Why is に used in the sentence 大ピンチに勝機が見えた?
Difference between 必死で走る and 必死に走る
Can the word 美人 ever refer to a man?
「ので」のように、「のに」も略せますか？
How to say “What's new?” 新着情報？
Is interjection ねえ、ねえ gender agnostic?
Translating a sentence with the て form
What is the difference between ～ていてください and ～ていってください?
Did I use として correctly?
Clarifying a passage containing ちょっと待てよと思った from がばいばあちゃん
Is this the correct way to identify Group 1 verbs?
Parsing 思うことだって、できるはずだ [duplicate]
Any Difference Between 手慣らし and 運動？
Other than はじめまして, what can we say in our introduction?
来て and 来てくれ differences? [duplicate]
だからって and ってだけで difference
Help regarding 義理
ゆきやま vs 雪山 kanji for yuki yama [closed]
What does そうなろう mean?
Meaning of 長い物には巻かれろ
Meaning and grammar of this sentence
A formal/informal way to say I don't want anything
How to interpret Xを上にして constructions regarding a map
How to say “Dealing with someone about something”
Meaning of 「かくや（という）」
Meaning of this 無手勝流の剣にしては！やる！line?
Questions about の→ん contraction, でござる→でございます shift
what means "評価欲しさに来る?
What attributive to use to express “clean” in “clean hands”?
what does the particle “de” means when it comes after a verb?
is “koesou” some conjugation form of the verb koeru?
Is this sentence referring to an individual or a group of people?
What does しまおう mean? [duplicate]
Causative verbs: when does the doer take を or に? [duplicate]
How to ask someone in a phone call to pass the phone to someone else?
Translating a sentence containing によって
How do I write the verb “To be”? 居る or いる？
What does 動詞た形 ＋ んじゃ mean? [duplicate]
「動詞辞書形＋な」はどういう意味ですか。
何が「The lady doth protest to much, methinks」の日本語の対等なの？ [closed]
Are なぬand ぬぬ like slangy/cute ways to say なに？
How to say “to know how to do something”
How do Japanese understand “non-standard” words without looking at kanji?
日本人は日本語で番号を書くなら、アメリカの小数点かヨーロッパのを書きますの？
About “tadashii”, present or past
How many people does わたしが世界で一番愛してる人 refer to?
Problems understanding this annotation
Question about [一騎当千]{いっ・き・とう・せん}
Why is D written as Đ in Japanese handwriting?
Figurative meaning of 「総動員{そうどういん}する」 with 語彙{ごい}
Meaning of 「位置の平等」は難しい。
Help understanding the usage of 「で」 in this clause
Using のに in a sentence, and expressing “third to last”
Help translating “やりかけの人生” [closed]
how does this phrase translate this way?
How to say “to look in the mirror”
What does “うちはどちらですか” mean?
Quiz question on keigo
Using 全員 （All students/All employees, etc.)
What is the meaning of 片頬で笑う?
What's the difference between 真（しん）and 真実（しんじつ）？
Asking politely about a negative
Conditional Form ~たら
Help understanding a JLPT N3 conversation (～くらいだから)
Can particle は use cases be summarized by a single inclusive term “disambiguation”?
Japanese dialogue attributions and English ways to translate them
How would I say “Japanese below”/“Japanese to follow”?
Why がない but はありません?
Does ピッとGo mean anything?
What does 円分 mean after a number?
遠のいちまう - what does it mean?
Can't wait to go to Japan
Can two requests be made in one sentence using ください?
By car, By Train, By Bike　etc
using “natte'ta” in a sentence [duplicate]
How to say “being under threat”
Meaning of しみじみ in this context
何でもきいてください in an interview [closed]
how can I analyze “満ちたりていたりした” to make sense?
Is there any rhyme or reason to hiragana?
What is the difference between hanashi and monogatari?
The main differences between 特有 and 固有
Why does the い-adjective require -さ conversion to match ～そうです？
What is て form at the end of sentences when it is not a request
What is more common pronunciation for 本文?
What word to use to refer to a manager at a gym/drug store?
Is there a universal (regardless of the context) way to say “already”?
Why past form of a verb is used instead of passive past?
What does she say in this dialogue?
What would the waitress normally ask if I visit a Gusto or similar restaurant?
Is this sentence I wrote with 間に right?
Translation of 歯｛は｝磨｛みが｝きしてこよう in Yotsubato! [duplicate]
What would be best to say at a 7 Eleven after I get my change?
Use of 絶対 with things that can't be measured
Syntax of this sentence
Difference between 決{き}める and 決{けっ}する?
What does 外野 mean here?
When to use は instead of other particles
Is it appropriate (and friendly) to say こんにちは to random people?
What exactly happens when you embed a clause with も?
What particle do I use for the one who received the favour in -てくれる?
Problems with this sentence?
Is this some kind of Japanese slang?
how to tell date?
Japanese equivalent of saying to keep something to yourself?
Equivalent of saying “It breaks my heart”?
Which verb does くらい modify in this sentence?
Kun Yomi of Chinese origin, like 竹 (take)
Using も when subject is different
The meaning of やわこく in archaic dialog
What is the difference between ayumu, sanpo and aruku?
Can 無理矢理 be used with inanimate objects?
What is this archaic female honorific form called, and what relationship does it describe?
How can I say “I speak very little Japanese”? [closed]
In this sentence she gets depressed/disappointed when she says the last sentence or just the last words?
Reduction of the diphthong “ou” to “ō” in Middle and Modern Japanese
Why do English speaking learners of Japanese use term “volitional” to refer to 未然形+う?
Are 結局 and てしまう equivalent in terms of expressing “end up doing something”?
What does the bottom part of 夢 mean, right under the 3 squares?
When on earth do you use ごろ (goro)?
what is the meaning of a た形の動詞　＋　とする
Most natural way to express “It's later now.”
What does お前…なぁ indicate?
「それがなにか」 v.s. 「それはなにか」
why is the reading of 瞬く and 瞬き not the same?
How to say right now, right over there etc
How would I say “this is because,” in japanese? [duplicate]
Nouns list followed by 他
What does conditional たら add to 未然形+う+とする?
Particle に to enumerate things?
相変わらず - Meaning and usage
How to say “she's dead” or “she passed away”? [closed]
Meaning of ご縁 and 縁 in this context
Genki 1 Can not translate question well
Meaning of ベタベタ when referring to a meeting
What is the word for the cleaning alcohol used by employees to clean hands in 7 Eleven?
What is the suitable japanese word for “forefathers” or “ancestors” that can be used in an essay? [closed]
Can 亞 be a simplification of 亜?
Understanding ~並みに and ending a sentence with a noun
Why is there a “yo” particle and not a “ga” particle in the phrase “Yūsha Satan yo kiseki o okose!”
Why is “together” spelled with “thong”
Did 無くす come from 無くする?
What's the difference between 変態 and 痴女 (or 痴漢)?
Can で be used to define a family relationship?
したい思った ? What is this odd construct?
Is おんえがいします different than お願いします? [closed]
Is 小判{こばん} understood as a slang term for coins or money in general?
Where does the 'no' come from in tsukuru(no)? Is it a particle or part to tsukuru [duplicate]
来年受験 - What does taking an exam in the coming year mean in this context?
Meaning of むせかえるような笹飾りの香りがした
Can someone explain the contrastive は to me?
Differences between いよいよ / やっと / ようやく / ついに and とうとう
What is 発表待つ saying in this title?
Pronouns in this sentence
What is the meaning of 「noun phrase」の手?
Translation English to japanese
Why can に be put after a verb's plain form?
What is the meaning of「一強・安倍政権」?
Any common, noteworthy changes in speech when a 日本人 is totally wasted?
What does キワモノ mean?
Is this a correct answer
Omission of く in negative form of い-adjective
More complex comparisons with より
Can't recognise kanji from image
How to interpret なりました at a baseball game radio broadcast? [closed]
Present Perfect in Genki I
What does より means in this context?
Usage of の and に in 弟のもっといいお手本になりなさい！
(Sumo cloze passage) What in tarnation was I supposed to put in this blank?
Is there a term for Japanese characters as a whole?
Difference between 標高 and 海抜
In the next sentence she wants to heal her wounds herself or she wants them to be healed?
Are Japanese people aware of the Chinese meanings of Kanji? [closed]
WHY Japanese use ていただきました in the end?
Why is the word オタク written in katakana?
Toshi o kattara, unten shimasen [closed]
Can 軈{やが}て mean “one day” rather than “soon/before long”?
What is the correct way to use 全部: Adverbially or Attributively?
how to translate xfx and / or onomatopoeia of the one piece manga
Difference between 愛する and 愛す
In the next sentence does she really care or is she pretending to care?
What does のですが mean in the following sentence?
What does 「名のある」 mean on this page of Yotsuba&! manga?
How do i know the difference between ni or wo while using verbs with people
Meaning of ～ばいいかな
differences between 簡単 and 単純
How do I alphabetize a list with Hiragana, Katakana and Jukugo?
Difference between 夢想 and ドリームスケープ
Are Japanese modifiers “greedy”, “anti-greedy”, or do they mean whatever people choose them to mean?
Counter followed by 隣
Is my katakana handwriting readable? [closed]
Converting names to Japanese
ことで in this sentence?
行っちまった and 行っちゃった differences?
Is my hiragana handwriting readable? [closed]
Usage of やばい and 危ない
What does わけもない mean?
What is the Japanese word for video views on the Internet?
Pronunciation of「ww」(笑い)
What's the difference between が and を here? [duplicate]
What does ついてる mean in 何かついてるじゃないの?
What does こんなことでいわれても express?
Can 燃える be used with the context of being embarassed?
Meaning of すぐ in this sentence
Why isn't 日本料理 written as 日本の料理?
On 「～ようってんじゃない」
What is the meaning of this (義兄弟) combination? Are there any cultural connotations?
Is んじゃないの rhetorical? And other conversation nuances
Using parentheses (=round brackets) with equals sign
Is あたし seen as soft?
What would a differential translation be for 「先住民」 and 「先住民族」?
Help deciphering meaning/conjugation of 言っちゃいとっちゃいます
Question about the verb 「いただき」
What does the word 「ぶったてる」mean?
Grammar usage of “と、～た”
How to respond to a compliment by a boss?
Meaning of すごいその
How to coordinate two noun clauses (の-clauses)?
Why is ば in this sentence?
What should I say when a senior colleague is leaving before me?
What does this lyric in a song mean?
What are the medical masks Japanese people wear called?
How to say “I am confused”?
How to interpret というか and だったり
both…and, neither…nor
How to say “I fell on my ass”?
Use of もともと in a self- introduction 自己紹介
Could someone please explain what this Japanese symbol means? [closed]
「そうなの？！」、「マジで？！」、「本当に？！」
Meaning of やら in this sentence
Massive problems with some elements of this sentence
Is there a secret meaning in PPAP song?
中心にする vs. 中心とする
Is there a difference between 公開日 and 発売日?
Help understanding neutral statement vs… er, non-neutral? に　/　には [duplicate]
Problem with implied verbs
“Recap”-equivalent Japanese word
is “Ai suru hito” rightly translated as “beloved persons”?
what did they mean to use くる in the past time?
How to choose between a na- and a no-adjective form of a word that takes both?
What does からかっちゃ mean?
What does [入]{はい}らなくなるからと mean in this sentence?
What is the か for after だから here
What does といった mean? [duplicate]
When do I have to use たくさん and とても?
In a work e-mail, what is the correct way to refer to one's wife who is a coworker?
How to read kanji when they are written together with hiragana or katakana in a sentence?
What is the difference between these two sentences?
Is 馬鹿げた only used in a negative way?
The が in アカメが斬る
The difference between 例え and 例えば
Should I avoid using the word 「来日」 when referring to myself?
What would be the most commonly used and understood term for copulation? (i.e sex)
かたくな etymology and relation to 固い
How would one would translate “Bearded man”?
Differences between 碁 and 囲碁
いくら's meaning here
How to use かなう for desires coming true
“Don't judge a man until you've walked a mile in his shoes”
What is the correct term for cash?
Why is の used in this sentence?
Meaning of もの in this song
what does the character say in this video?
How many ways to say “but” are there in Japanese?
Four different verbs meaning “to release”: 放す, 放つ, 解き放す, 解き放つ
Are there differences between 一瞬{いっしゅん}, 瞬間{しゅんかん} and 一瞬間{いっしゅんかん}?
Difference between ものだ and というものだ
Does 関係 use particle に or と?
How is 件 pronounced as a counter?
How to pronounce 自払
How important is it to the man in the following question?
How is ではなく formed?
Understanding 一面に
What does “好きになってあげるわよ” means?
Meaning of 工夫をこらす
Is there such a word as かなまや or かなまゆ?
Meaning of 尖った道
meaning of ひょうたん ぽっくりこ in a song about a rolling caterpillar
What is the difference in usage between nominalized nominal verbs and nouns forming the same nominal verbs?
What is the difference between 合わす and 合わせる? [duplicate]
How to say “What the f**k am I doing here?”
How does には work in 10年は待つには長い時間だ, following a verb? [duplicate]
Explanation of 掛けられたら in this situation?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
How to ask what days of the week someone does something
Explanation of ambiguous “gokigenyou”
Is there a shorter version of saying “これからは、日本語を学ぶために全力を尽くします。”?
Japanese subtleties in these sentences
こと vs. の in this sentence
Problem with the て form in this sentence
“ji” ending on verb “nai” stem?
Translation doubts [closed]
Feeling unsure about the connection of the two sides of the comma
What is this なければならない doing there?
What does する mean in this sentence?
Problem with のが in this sentence
Translating the set phrase 後は～～だけ
Proper way to say “Look at the sky”
What does 全中制覇 means?
Parsing potential phrase modifying a noun
Problems with the grammar of this sentence
”ないし”-Unable to understand the use of this phrase here
Japanese word for “Re-accommodate”
What is the meaning of か in といったところか
What does あるとき mean in this sentence?
Translation of “technically speaking” / What is this villain saying?
Is this the right way to write Sailor Pluto in Japanese?
Are there many ways to read kanji for names? [duplicate]
Difference between 設計 and 提案
Difference between 職務 and 業務
Etymology of 「消毒」
Unable to determine the meaning behind ~のみこと at the end of certain names
Meaning of 命の保証
How to say “From /a book/?”
Name of レ点 in 漢文
Difference between お座り お掛け　ください
Could ひきつけられる mean “to get distracted”?
Are「まじめじゃない」、「まじめな人」subjective terms
Unable to understand 理にかなっています meaning
Does 連用形 always reflect the meaning of 連体形 of a verb? [duplicate]
Meaning of チャラいわり
Distinguishing 「話し」 する and 五段 usage
Meaning of なっちゃねぇ
Translating て-form + ばかりいないで
Need help understanding the embedded image
How to write 'I'm emailing you in regard of [topic]'
Can I use my Chinese name and if so, how do I say it?
What does やりすぎなほど mean on this page of Yotsubato!
How 「えい」 should be pronounced in the words like 英語, 先生, etc?
What does the sentence structure ＡでもＢ mean in this song?
Why both 弟 and 第 kanji have the same 音読み?
What is the difference between 預金 and 入金?
How to explain to the 店員 that I'm an “inverted triangle” body type?
How to interpret ないって
A term in Japanese like “love-hate relationship”
「下記」vs 「以下」usage
Meaning of はにゃせ or はにやせ
Word in haiku - sugara
What does this ～づくし mean?
Involving 2 verbs in a sentence
Translating とする彼を
What does 虎の巻 mean?
What is the definition of adjective in japanese?
When can adjectives be used with the particle “no”?
Rules and phenomena about reading/writing words with kanji
is 退屈は石になる an expression or it's wrongly translated?
How to say “I take dancing classes” or “I'm learning dancing”
Etymological Connection Between 帽子, 眸子 and 牟子
Is there a word to express “the rain of sakura petals”?
On the use of 「憎々しいまでの」
How do I know which sentence is more polite?
In which cases pronouns can be omitted in questions?
What's the definition of “subject” in japanese? [duplicate]
Meaning of 二次遭難{にじそうなん}
Meaning of ポンポンしている
What does it mean this kanji from Kong movie?
What is にゃんちゅう saying here?
Difference between どこですか and どこにいますか/どこにありますか?
What does 二系列の交叉点　mean?
Meaning and usage of ~としたことが
“compound verbs” in the following sentences
“Do completely” suffixes (〜しまう, 〜きる, 〜ぬく) or verbs and their differences
year before last - いっさくねん or おととし
Difference between に and まで? [closed]
use of particles on direct object
Can you explain this conversation?
Difference between 上げる and 与える [duplicate]
孫悟飯 - Songohan, why non-Japanese say it comes from “gohan = meal/cooked rice”?
Referring to Chinese Characters that are not used in Japanese
Difference in から and 以来
Confusion over the use of いい人
What is the kanji for いもうと? [closed]
Use of だけ with と for saying “only /this/ and /this/”
Are there any radicals with immutable position in kanji?
Is there a difference in drawing between the “mouth” and “enclosure” kanji radicals?
How is さすがに (sasugani) used?
A phrase similar to “…is the mother of all f##k ups!”
Looking for some English to Katakana advice for the name Marilou
Bloatware (¿ブロートウェア?), crapware (¿クラップウェア?), craplets (¿馬鹿?) in Japanese
Do the adverbial forms of verbs and nouns exist?
Why は instead of で？
Is there a native Japanese word for upgrading a document to a new format?
Help to translate a tweet
「ボーダー」… What border?
Where did the term ノートパソコン come from?
Closest meaning of Soulmate, 運命の人 or 心の友?
Is it correct to use と directly after こと when listing?
Standard/Conventions in Japanese
されている vs. している for certain objective verbs
Employee turnover in Japanese
Employee turnover in Japanese
Japanese equivalent to ASAP
What 生きていけたら means here?
Should I use で or に?
Are 何でもない and 別に interchangeable?
What is the difference between 「しております」and 「しています」?
What is the difference, in usage, between native Japanese words and their Chinese derived counterparts?
function of 一度 in the following sentence
Another language question regarding tomodachi
Is my interpretation of this phrase correct?
meaning of these words
Meaning of this incomplete sentence
It is も and した right?
What does 〜うちが花 mean?
Is there a standard for furigana? ふりがな vs フリガナ
“善処します” What is the person saying this actually implying?
What are the differences between the multiple words for purses and similar bags?
Usage of 私的, 私用 and 私情
what is the meaning of いくわけだ
「Xの原始として,Y」の意味 (What does the phrase Xの原始としてのY　mean?)
How does しまう function here and/or what does it mean?
Times in this sentence
what kind/conjugation of verb is used in this pattern? [duplicate]
Using 「～さん」 when referring to both oneself and others: precedence?
Why does だけ come before は?
What is the difference between 開発者 & 技術者?
When shouldn't I use 「〜さん」when referring to a third person?
Is it possible to begin a sentence with または?
お世話になってます vs お疲れ様です
How do I parse this sentence?
Taking blame though I'm not at fault
Is 神を more “correct” than 神?
all the readings of 父
Is ペンキ塗り立て a common expression for “Wet Paint”?
Can the declarative of だ、です、etc, be used with adverbs?
Why is そう used to refer to something the speaker just said?
hontou nano ka , is “na” here part of the question marker or is it something else?
Does “kaze” also mean “a cold” in Japanese? [duplicate]
Is there a hidden meaning?
Do possessive pronouns exist at all in Japanese or the only way to refer to possession is through the “no” particle?
Meaning of ~タガとして
are “papa” and “mama” also used in japanese as father and mother?
Breaking down “いんや, まだずらよ”?
How would I ask a Japanese person for a translation or correction that isn't 1:1 with my English example?
What does “manga” truly mean in Japanese?
What does this inserted clause mean?
Grammar まるで - ようだ
Who is it referring to in this sentence?
How do you say “(noun) is more/less (adj) to (person A) than to (person B)”?
にする in this sentence?
use of the causative form in 「誰に何言わせる気もないよ！　しゃんとしてろ！」
When was this Japanese standard and why this is so different from modern Japanese?
Furigana: Usage and application
What is this というのに?
Help with a sentence
だろうと how can I translate it?
Problems with どうすれば [duplicate]
What does かけまいと mean here?
Can I use そうです (inference) in past?
Problems with -て 来る
How did the split between ichidan and godan verb conjugations come to be? Were suru and kuru always irregular?
How to say “I started to learn Java” in Japanese? [closed]
Why does 近年 refer to the past, but 近日 refer to the future?
-chan, -kun, what is used currently for a friend?
How do you translate this phrase 「ボルシアは秋にイブラこと」? (see sentence for context)
いろいろな便利な - In some case, two na-adjectives linked not using で?
Missing clause conjunction (…結果、…)
Is it a particular grammar? [duplicate]
What is the difference between 納入 and 支払?
How to transliterate 中文 in Mandarin pronunciation to Japanese [closed]
What does ～くて mean in this sentence?
How do I say group conformity?
What is the etymology of this child's melody about stepping on kittens?
How would one refer to someone else's lover in 尊敬語?
What is the meaning of “超か” in this news headline?
How to say “I told him that XXX”? [duplicate]
What exactly does リクルート mean?
What does では mean in this sentence?
Old Japanese dates
What is the difference between 搾る and 絞る?
Why is “My Apps” translated to マイApp instead of something like 自分のApp?
I heard a word that sounded like psycho in English, what does it mean?
On なる and Adverbs
What is the difference between 常に、いつも、始終、しょっちゅう？
Does ぴゃhave a meaning?
Is おっすused by both men and women?
四つ仮名 yotugana - pronunciation difference
How to explain 区取り位置
とは言え conjunction
Is the volitional form of i-adjectives often used?
I am trying to translate the song “tsukihana,” but I am confused by this line: 罪を灯しひなぎくの 夢に寄り添う爪の痕
てくれる vs てもらう when the topic or subject is implied
Why is 街に歩く not grammatical?
Can I use 近くif I am close to a person with my feelings?
の or を？ What is the correct answer and why is it correct?
About the word たまわぴ
How do I find the right meaning of homonyms 同音異義語 via audio?
What's the difference between 洗面器 and タライ?
What's a good grammatical antonym for the auxiliary verb 始める?
Is there a term for “manga language”?
Mean of “ブランドによって消費量が違う” [closed]
What are the bars placed outside of windows called?
What term refers to the written characters used before kanji? [duplicate]
Is お帰り only used in the home environment?
Why 東南西北 is read トンナンシャーペー in this lyrics?
Dakuten on る character
what does it say on this karate belt? [closed]
What's a formal way of saying “seems like”?
Proper way to say “it looks good”
How to say that something is overrated, overhyped
Anytime: 随時 vs. 何時でも
店番 vs. 店員 - are these synonymous?
What is the difference between 気が向く and 気がする?
How to say “Are you nuts?”
Meaning of ところ in アメリカのいいところ
「まじ」as “will not”
Does “軽い勉強” mean “studies that are not important” or “studies that are easy”?
野武士 and 侍 interchangeability
Why is ダメ written most commonly in katakana?
What is the difference between genkikana and genkidesuka?
で or に: how does the meaning of a sentence change?
What is the difference between 迷惑をかけた and お騒がせしました?
Which Kanji for お手数をかける
Usage of potential form of かける
What does 具志川mean? [closed]
Alternate ways to say 結構です?
Is there a term for two words that mean the same thing, but a preference for one?
What dialect is ！〜べ?
What is the English equivalent of “~っぺ”? [closed]
meaning of とが in this sentence
とする versus なら (and other confusion)
Can I use 西 as my last name
Can the word 新鮮 be used as an expression?
Translating a couple of sentences [closed]
“Can do” Form grammar?
Is there a difference between 出来る and 作る。
How to properly say “Finally, I'd like to thank..:” at the end of a speech?
Natural phrasing when introducing yourself and the reason you are arriving somewhere
Is there a term for “English that doesn't make sense”?
Can もう be used to express frustration?
Meaning of 保護される in the following sentence
How to say, I/you need [a] better [noun]?
Can I use もしもしif I want to get someone/group to pay attention?
Are the province names of Japan translatable into English?
What is the meaning 本心じゃない and ~言ってきた?
Looking for ateji for Colombia
Trouble with this sentence
How to say “cheap and easy” for food/recipes?
What does ままにした mean?
Is it appropriate to use irasshaimase when welcoming someone to a private office?
What is the meaning of “おいらの中では” in this tweet?
Is this sentence wrong? Must an action verb like 買いました always use を？
Problems with そうです in this sentence
Is 眩しい思いで referring to a feeling or a memory?
When saying “while” doing something, how do: 間、うち and ながら differ?
Adjective for beautiful hand-writing? (きれい, 美しい{うつくしい} ?)
How do I decipher each word in a sentence, if all is written in hiragana?
What is the correct grammar particle for 'for'?
What is the meaning of あっています
Does 横恋慕 mean illicit love?
Help in this sentence [closed]
Is this referring to an Idiomatic way to say someone is smiling?
Why does this unvoiced ほ sound become a voiced ぼ sound?
How can I parse this long atributive sentence:
ご近所様に配達 - Where exactly this will be delievered?
Is there any reason a lot of body parts use the Month/Moon radical?
How can I understand the meaning of cut phrase, like this “きみとずっと、はじめを…”, in advertisements or movie trailers
What exactly does くずし字 refer to?
What are the meaning of the sufix ちゃん in an adult man?
How would you say “Family before wealth” in Japanese?
What is the meaning of 会社 in yakuza language?
Meaning of 世界圏内 in the following sentence
Similarity between 挟む and 狭む
I can't identify this form (だって)
what does けど do in this sentence? [duplicate]
Ｗhat is the difference between くつろぐ and のんびり?
Can だけど and しかし be used in the same way, or is one considered more formal?
What are the large free standing imitation circular “flower” arrangements in front of pachinko parlors called?
'Prefer' and 'Recommend' in Japanese
Grammar of verb + noun + から
How do these negations differ? (Plain negative vs. potential negative)
神 compared to 神様
Can ただ今be used if I visit a relatives home on a daily basis?
What does this kanji mean? How do I read it?
How are made up words for anime/manga formed (reading and kanji)?
What does どれも mean in this particular context?
Translation difficulties and the meaning of 着くように
Why does 冬休みは家族でイタリアやイギリスへ行きました。 have で instead of と? [duplicate]
Is the inkan(印鑑) the device that is used to make the hanko(判子)?
Why does this sentence ご飯を食べてから部屋を掃除してください。 has から? [duplicate]
What does 目立ち mean?
Expansion and politeness of 飲んじゃいなよ
What is the difference between 役に立てば and 役に立てれば?
Many people squat/sit with their buttocks almost to the ground, whats it called?
How to connect words that describe a person?
What is the prefecture, city and town emblem called? [closed]
Is the term moai used in Japanese?
Casual way to enter a home?
Converting を from Hiragana to Romaji
What is the term for “grounded” in the sense of a punishment?
Can the honorific お be used with a person's name?
Meaning of かな in this context?
Abbreviation for jinmeiyō?
Does と mark reported speech here? [duplicate]
What is the term for a wishy washy person?
What is the meaning of しも?
What's the meaning of “懐けばとことん懐きます”
Adjective + とする
How to say “On mondays I get home at 5pm” [closed]
Is 伊 a part of a word?
Problems with the syntax of this sentence
What does つっこむ べき mean?
Difference between ましてや and なおさら
What does 数値化 mean?
What are the sandals worn with a kimono called? [closed]
Can the term お姉さん be used to address female strangers politely? [closed]
Can ふんいき and かんじ mean the same thing?
愛は傷つきやすく translated as “Love is Free”?
What is the difference between あれ and あの？
What is the difference between 時々and たまに？
Why is ところ used instead of こと in these sentences?
Why is りんご written in hiragana?
What are the envelopes used for giving money on special occasions called?
Meaning of で in 敦賀から新大阪まで〈で〉２兆１０００億円かかる予定です
Combining words [closed]
What is the term for road rage? [closed]
What is an answer for ごめんなさい？
Difference between “verb(past) + こと + ある” and “verb + ている”
Is いつもの an adjective or the object in the following sentence?
Translation help! Placement of 願い in this sentence is confusing
What is “確かにコレじゃあな” supposed to mean here?
What is the hair bun on a sumo wrestler's head called?
Is this a joyo kanji? What does it mean?
君は、持っているものに気づかれなかったのか、元から持っていないのか、どっちだ。Meanining passive
Does the term 女性語 identify words only used by women?
More complex sentences - When to use は? When to use が?
どのｖｓどれ- can I use them interchangeably?
Can the term ちわ be used as slang for こんにちわ？
Do Roman numerals have on and kun readings?
Can you use multiple 'no's?
Unrelated clauses joined by て or the extra meaning of こともある
the meaning of "つくってゆしゅつしてます”? [closed]
What is the meaning of やかおもすぐ?
How do you say “OpSec” in Japanese?
How do I say “boner”?
Is 戈 a joyo kanji? What does it mean?
What is the name of the green cross safety flag used at construction sites?
Why is ペラペラ written in katakana?
Is 相手……全然甘えない… idiomatic?
How can I tell if a Japanese person's given name is male or female?
How to say 'I think so"?
What is the practice of conforming to group standards in society called?
途中で or 時に? And what's the difference?
Some trucks are highly customized with flashy metal, horns, and lights, what are they called?
Can こんちゃbe used as a slang form of こんにちわ?
Is it okay to say 'ohayo gozaimasu' in first meeting with a Japanese stranger?
Can verbs be both transitive and intransitive?
Is “otaku” a male term?
What is the term for sleepers (the crusty discharge that forms in the eyes during sleep)?
What is the term for off limits to foreigners? [closed]
Can 大変mean amazing and awful?
Can the term せんもん be used to describe a professional person? [closed]
What does "僕はもう君以外何もいらない君だけが欲しいんだ。金はもうあるし” mean?
ただいま～ at the beginning
How can I say “Right now it is lunch time so it's very quiet”?
How to understand みんなしてお出かけですか?
What is this kind of book layout called?
Does this kanji for “village” have 2 different meanings?
Is 吾 a joyo kanji?
Why is the term オナニー written in katakana?
Why are some prefecture names written in hiragana on license plates?
What does ぶわははは mean?
What does the term ふうん mean?
Can のreplace ですか when asking a question?
what's the meaning of ぎじゅつしゃ?
Does this sentence 「彼女が美しくなりましたね。」 need 「に」?
How do attendance checklists in Japan deal with multiple possible name readings?
What's the meaning of “どアップしんどい”?
Is this a kanji, a radical or something?
Difference between words 事前に , 前もって and 早めに
Translation of ハッピーニューイヤーンバカーン
What is the term for the large ball shaped lights that are used to illuminate roads during construction?
Who is the subject in 「駅の前にいるから、迎えに行ってくれる？」?
About the correct answer to a reading test
What were the units of measure used before the metric system was implemented? [closed]
Use of 何 in these sentences; please help with translating!
When sentences have several clauses with several subjects/topics, do they use more than one “ga” or “wa”?
Etmyology of “ombo”
Verb conjugations such as 思わん、言えん [duplicate]
癖のある~ and negative connotations
Ｗhat is the difference between 終に、遂に、and 竟に？
nowa , to in the phrase “kimi o shiawase ni dekiru nowa boku dake da to shinjite imashita”
Why are “loanwords” written in katakana?
Is this phrase missing something?
How to say “serve” in “The server serves the request”?
How to pronounce 5,60年?
Difference between particles wa, ga and o with sukidesu
formality of ちゃう・じゃう
alternative ways to say “who are you?”?
Dictionary which distinguishes formal and informal words [closed]
Dictionary which distinguishes formal and informal words [closed]
What do these ''must do'' sentences like ''ikanakutewaikemasen'' literally mean? What is gramatically going on? [duplicate]
Is the term さん also used on envelopes when sending a letter?
Is 「(i-adjective) + そうだったと思う」 grammatical/natural?
What does the term Honcho mean?
Daisuki vs Aishiteru (大好き vs 愛してる)
Is there a reason it is -to omou instead of wo omou to say you think something?
What is the difference between 要求事項 and 要件?
What does *mono / もの* mean in the sentence below? [duplicate]
what is the difference between oshieta and oshiete kureta?
What does *kata* mean in the sentence provided below?
What is term for the most general form of writing or text
academic and calendar years
Can someone please explain how to use 出会い/出会う correctly?
Difficulty with this sentence
tte vs to as quotation markers? [duplicate]
What does he exactly say in this phrase?
Do the Japanese actually use the word “Hentai” to mean “Anime Porn”, like in English?
When you have to use “to” when using “no aida” to express “in between”
When へ is used as a response, to something someone has said, what does it mean?
Genki pg 305, [day of the week] NI vs [day of the week] WA
What is the meaning of the word 数独 (sudoku)? [duplicate]
Meaning of 素直に甘える in the following sentence
What are the election vans called?
Can だ/だった be omitted before conjunctive が?
Do all kana have a large and small reading?
Who is doing the wanting in this sentence?
what different between よほど、困ったのだろう “ and ”さぞ、困ったのだろう"
Difference between 内容, 明細 and 詳細
Meaning of 無理して
Where does the exclamation せ〜の come from?
What are common familially intimate names?
AM and PM in Japanese
What is the difference between 未満 and 不足?
Why are verbs written in kanji and kana combinations instead of all kanji?
How do you “try” a suru verb? Like “to try to cook”
What does ばだった stand for?
What does ぼうしのどんぐり mean on this page of Yotsuba&!! ?
Is んですから/ので/… grammatically correct?
Meaning of に in プラスチック**に**は体に悪い物質が付きやすいため
しゃかいじんの悩みランキング　means? [closed]
Why is 葉 'leaf' used in 言葉 and 万葉集? Why is it used for words, language, and speech?
Issue identifying the topic of a sentence
Can someone help translate this gravestone?
To describe how to write a kanji, is it more useful to say the radical first, or the base kanji?
What is a term for “good to go”?
きれいな鳥に連れてってもらいます
どこかでなろうたんですか。meaning?
How to refer human and animal as “both of them”?
What type of clause is 「蛙飛び込む」 in the famous haiku by Basho?
Difference between words 目的 /目標 and 方針
Difference between words ゴミ and 廃棄物
Replying to a refusal of an invitation
Japanese sentence that needs translation
Meaning of ところ in アメリカのいいところ
What exactly is っていう defining here?
Lack of particles in songs
Are any Japanese words ever intentionally misspelled for any reason?
What does プチプチ mean?
What is “ホラね、あった” referring to?
Can a two Kanji character word ever have the same meaning if written in reverse order?
What does 古えの地綺譚 mean, how do you read it, and what is its origin?
What are the colored borders of a tatami called?
What are the common tennis terms in Japanese?
What is the meaning of 業{ごう} in this line?
知らせる・知らされる conjugation
What Unicode code points are needed to write Japanese Jōyō-Kanji?
しちゃいない meaning in this sentence.
部品 vs. 用品 - difference in usage
What does はわはわ mean?
Are Kanji acronyms ever used?
Can an individual Kanji character have more than one radical?
How does one know when to use ～ふん or ～ぷん when telling time in Japanese?
What does 言わなきゃいいだけ mean?
Is using a state-of-being in passive form feasible?
なら and から what's the relation?
しよう meaning of this word?
What does さあ (saa) mean?
病気にかかる？病気にかかっている？など
Usage of なんでやねん
What is the last word being spoken in this audio clip/sentence?
If I want to start doing something - translation
Using 何を with intransitive verbs (eg 何をにやついているの?)
Would a Japanese person say “Yay, no school!” or “Yay, no classes!”?
Teageru, TeMorau, TeKureru
Does なんかいいな and 焼いてるboth refer to jealousy?
What does やついておる mean?
Different between 頂くand いただく？
how do I refer to bathrooms that are completely full / unavailable?
What is the difference between 「登録している」 and 「登録した」?
What's the verb/verb-phrase used to described having sex(in a way that isn't dirty)?
Is there any difference in usage between 参加 and 加盟?
Asking about a touchy subject: English ability
Does 耶 still hold any value in Japanese?
Understanding どうしたら
Using とる to say I took a picture of my dog in the park
What are the musical sounds that are heard from garbage trucks called?
possessive の with a verb [duplicate]
Why did the speaker say “バラの花を貰った” instead of just “バラを貰った”?
Origins of the “next-next week” expression
Can any other characters besides は and わ be used interchangeably at the end of words?
Is there a reason for the days of the week being written and pronounced without the 日? [duplicate]
When a dog in pain whines or howls, is it 「泣いている」 or 「鳴いている」?
What is the most common word for medicine? (the physical substances, not the field of study)
How polite is おっけーです when it is said by the shop staff to a customer?
What's the 日本語 equivalent of “Wipe them off the map”?
Speech impediment - slurred speech
Would this be an okay response in Japanese?
Meaning of 使えるようになりました
Why is は here used but not が？
What is the most common greeting phrase, used by service attendants, when a customer pulls into a gas station for fuel? [closed]
What is the meaning of 「いや、知っていて」 in this sentence?
Is 「用」the kanji for 「よう」in the listed phrases?
What is the term for a time limited meal at a restaurant?
How to refer to a place by number
かっこいくない vs かっこよくない
What is the grammar behind this sentence in old Japanese
Are どう、どこ、どれ、どの、等、exclusively question words?
What's the grammar structure for “かな”?
What is the name for the sliding doors made of a wood frame with paper?
What is a typical Japanese term for “fake”, like in “Fake News”?
Contracted verb: Negative, positive, which one is it and why? [duplicate]
What's the difference between 「ゆっくりと…」and 「ゆっくりとして…」?
Meaning of しゃいどったで?
What verb is 「つく」 in 「～に気がつく」?
What does 三馬を偸んで mean?
Differences of 伴う and 同伴する
Are possessive particles implied in a conversation?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
Why are う and い used to prolong ~O and ~E, instead of お and え?
What is the etymology of the expression 「そんな」?
“もを” is too unnatural, so use a comma instead of “も” in this list?
What kind of words can be used with とうとう、ついに、やっと、ようやく、いよいよ？
Is it correct to say はい in this situation?
What's the difference between the kanji 聲 and 声?
Meaning of ゴルフ場を国の土地にした
Meaning and usage of やっぱり (矢っ張り)
Why 予期せぬ is more common than 予期しない?
Inferring subject/person spoken to from 嵐のあとで lyrics
When describing time span, are 間 {あいだ} and 内 {うち} interchangeable?
一部屋一部屋 Meaning and reading
What is the name of this song? Is it for voice tone practicing?
Onyomi words consisting of just one kanji (and nothing else)
Turning ～たい into an adverb (～たく)
how do I use ～んです with a noun?
How to ask for X yen worth of something?
Is 貝獣 an actual pun?
What is the difference between 「なく」 and 「なしに」?
Difference between 決算書, 財務諸表 and 決算書類
Why are 前 and 後 used backwards from how I would expect on this site?
Help to understand a sentence: どのように and か
The usage of 一覧
Can 'なければなりません' be used for possibility?
What does “いんやぁ” mean?
What exactly is a ‘cambay’?
How to read 24-hour clock format
The use of ô versus ō in rōmaji
Correct a sentence which used 欲しがる
Questions about comparatives
How to say, want something from someone or to use someone (negative meaning)
What are differences between 帰ってなかった and 帰らなかった
Is there a word for “using a wrong kanji”?
What is the difference between kattan and kaimashita?
Proper term for “study”
Meaning of てなきゃ in this sentence?
食べていました and its use
Understanding the meaning of one sentence
Use of “kara” in written Japanese
Unspecified Pronouns, use of だから in a sentence
Parsing problem — can two clauses share a single predicate?
What is a typical font size for Japanese text?
Usage of 卵 vs. 玉子 when talking about eggs
There is not enough space
Difference between みたいに and みたいな in this sentence
~たらいい、~といい, hope, temporal syntax and over-literal readings
How to introduce yourself as an Exchange Student? [closed]
Can we use 学生 to represent a person who learns martial arts?
What's the Japanese word for amanuensis?
Understanding the meaning of a sentence [duplicate]
What does it say on my Japanese alarm clock? [closed]
Why is に used here and are there any possible replacements for it here?
What is the difference between ni and ni wa, when talking about a person?
Meaning of “しっかり体験して”?
What is the role of と in this case?
How do I decide which Hentaigana to use?
Is Mierareru the potential form of Mieru?
Comparisons without using です
How does 笑えない話をしていた translate to this? [closed]
What is the difference between 取り除く and 削除?
この曲の意味を暗示する歌詞の特定性について
Why does 音を表したことば use the past tense?
N(person)にもらいます
Usage of こらえる　【堪える】
When is Vている the continuation of action and when is it the continuation of state?
How to parse 東京都と埼玉県、北海道などにある会場も
How do we use に気をつける vs を気をつける？
Why does しあわせです end with です, but かなしんでいます with ます?
Explaining the sentence 今になってもまだ実現していないさま
What does しておいたほうがいい mean?
Is が marking an object in this sentence?
Do place names often use jinmeiyō kanji and furigana?
What does 'ワインを買っていくよ。' mean?
Needing quick help with grammar! Is this the correct way to phrase it? Does this sentence make sense?
連濁 in proper nouns
Can I say “…の予算を生かして…する”?
In the phrase 「褒められたものではない」, why is 「褒められた」 in past tense (as opposed to present tense 「褒められる」)? [duplicate]
What's the precise meaning and usage of the っこ construction?
Better way of expressing without using ”のための”？
Meaning of してほしいと考えています
What does 食べたいものを好きなだけ食べる mean?
Phrases indicating time in the future
Difference between では and には when the final verb is still ある?
Is it always necessary to ask how someone's name is pronounced if you encounter it first in writing?
Where would に be in this sentence?
Help differentiating passive from potential form
dai 3 ka renshuu A 5 ( minna no nihongo 1 )
How to parse インターネットの手続きはお客様のほうで取って頂く形になります?
Does Okinawan have syllables Japanese doesn't?
What is the purpose of も here?
Is there a casual gender-neutral first-person pronoun?
Why does　なんてね　mean “Just kidding”?
Who is the subject in 思うがままの人生を送れたら、どんなに幸せだろう?
What does しといてくれて mean here? [duplicate]
(question word)-でも (何でも、誰でも、いつでも) can also be used in a negative sentence?
The meaning of ちっちゃなハート
What is the difference between 労働契約 and 雇用契約？
How can I ask if they are bothered by me not being japanese?
What is the meaning of 岩圭?
Strangely-Ordered Sentences vs. Attributive Phrases
What does すがすがしいな mean?
Use of personal pronouns when talking to different “ranked” people. (In the same conversation)
What does きた mean in this context? [duplicate]
Progressive tense used as adjective
Meaning of 「さいってー」 as an interjection
What is という after a verb?
Can a question directly modify a noun?
What does it say on this drinking game?
What does こつぐってなる mean?
What does this correction mean?
Is 蛛 from the word 蜘蛛? Is it a silent kanji?
Takehiko to Takejiro different name or diminutive?
曜日 and 曜 don't mean the same but xx曜日 and xx曜 are synonyms?
Is apple usually spelt as リンゴ in a culinary context? [duplicate]
Uses of 'すみません'
How to say “within” / “in the context of”/ “as a part of”?
How to parse 移民が多く働いているレストラン
Is 彼女が懐かしい equal to 彼女を懐かしくした?
Is 懐かしくさせる地獄 natural?
Please help with translation: 静かな方へ
Using 文字 instead of 言葉
How did Japanese obtain a unit of measure called a カップ that's 200 mL?
What is the material: ざいしつ or ざいりょう?
Is there a better way to say “young adult” than 若い大人？
Why is 来る spelled with kanji and する is not?
Can anybody here substantiate this anecdote in V. I. Arnold's book “Yesterday and long ago”?
Use of 都合の良い (tsugounoii) in text of Akutagawa Ryuunosuke “藪の中” [duplicate]
Relationship between 屋, 室 and 至
Usage of conditional なら
Oops! 仕舞った vs. おっと
How to pronounce 体?
What does ㊙︎DVD mean?
Difference between 付く and 付いている
こばれた means what?
Difference in nuance between いつ and 何時
“たものですか” “used to” is not convincing in my example
Is 国家主義 considered as abhorrent as “nationalism” is?
Usage of ようとしない
Is “to” optional in this line?
Why do they use the 連用形 instead of the て form here? [duplicate]
What does ては mean in this sentence?
The difference between 文書 and 文書化
How to interpret the comma in this sentece?
How to say 1-to-1 correspondence without causing any ambiguities?
Interpretation of a difficult sentence involving “二人の間に入ってしまった”
What is the correct usage of conditional and hypothetical?
The uses of おはよう, こんばんわ and おやすみ
How do you say 'platform' in Japanese?
What does うえ mean in this case？ [duplicate]
What does “子役の闇” mean?
Why does 逃げよ mean 'Escape!"?
How to translate ‘the least + adjective’
Writing a named building/place
What's the difference between these two sentences?
What's the meaning of 生き乍らへて / 生き乍らえて?
An expression that means “speaking of X” or “while we're on this topic…”
How do you use の as a de-facto が particle?
What is the difference between V-あげる and V-たて
営業 used in a conversation about love
終わらなさそうだ versus 終わりそうもない [duplicate]
Pronunciation of ん before a fricative
Long O — when is it OU and when OO?
Alternative facts in Japanese
Subjunctive. Why 2 is correct [duplicate]
ような in the sentence and how to use?
What form of imperative is this? 是非この機会お見逃しなく！
っぱち suffix - meaning and addition of さ suffix
ご堪能 usage and meaning
Where does the な used in な-adjectives come from?
Please help me with this sentence: 手術台から…噛みました
Meaning of the kanji 圀 in 光圀 [closed]
Knight in Shining Armor - Idioms
ば conditional - combinations of action/state verb and same/different subject
は vs が in 私は言うように書いてください。
What's the canonical transliteration of “Give me chocolate” into katakana?
How should I begin learning the letters and what they sound like? [closed]
Shiai (試合?) vs kyousou (競争?) in martial arts
ている pronunciation/internalization
Saying “some seconds”
“Uncomfortable” in the physical sense
Can 体 be synonymous with a word like 性格 in some cases?
How can one review hiragana or kanji in both a computer font and a brushed style? [closed]
How to say “There is (A) in (B)(Location).”
How do you say “Are you sure?”
Meaning of ここで引くなどご法度
What's the meaning of にもin その話は前にも聞いたよ。?
Which is more formal/polite: 大いに or ずいぶん?
Can particle に be always interpreted as adverbial modifier marker?
What いく supposed to mean here?
Is アリ in そんなのアリかよ⁉︎ some type of slang?
Help with understanding sentence in Manga (pic inside)
Causative せる/させる vs. す/さす
Meaning of 軽んじる and 舐める
What is the meaning of だ when used in a sentence involving a past tense verb like 来たばかりだ?
Meaning of なってねェよ?
What does 血路 mean in this passage? Is it actually Blood Road?
Interpreting って - te-form or quotation?
Can 方 be taken out of some sentences without changing the meaning?
why this sentence has this grammatical structure? 話し手も相手も共通に知っている場合
When asking what a certain building within sight is, would “あれ” or “あの” be used?
Meaning of 最も多い in this sentence
How to say to my boss “Please don't hurry and take your time.”?
What is the grammatical form of 待たされていました?
What does アタマ mean in reference to food/portion sizes?
How does モンねぇ effect the sentence?
Meaning of を in 東京都庁をスタートする
Meaning of ように in this sentence
Difference between 注意する and 気をつける
Pronunciation of silent consonants in English names
American use of Japanese naming conventions
Why did Mount Fuji (富士山) become “Fujiyama” in English?
エリンを中盤に来て削ってどうするの。
What is the relationship between “Fuchs du hast die Gans gestohlen” and 「こぎつねこんこん」? [closed]
How to introduce oneself in relation to ones husband?
Is is correct to say ~亡くなりなりました? [closed]
How to introduce myself in relation to my wife?
Can the particle か have an exhortative value?
History and etymology of Japanese onomatopoeia
How is suicide bombing justified by a divine breeze?
What is “new information” for が?
How to say “To clarify, …?” in Japanese?
Why are there so many different words with the same pronunciation in Japanese?
How should I interpret the function of these words in this phrase 今日は雨だ。?
は、が、を、に and information structure of Japanese Question
Difference between かくえき(各駅) and ふつう(普通)
how do you say “Refugees are humans too” in Japanese
Word order and emphasis with たくさん
What does ホーム mean and why is it written in Katakana?
Are these sake and strawberry flavored Kit Kats?
Is it permitted to use kanji beyond the jinmeiyō kanji for names?
can the same compound have different readings when having the same meaning?
Different ways to say to like?
Meaning of 認める and how to use it
The difference between 愚かな and 愚かしい
What is 量 referring to in this sentence?
Asking a group of people about something
how to make clear that your japanese is bad?
How to say ,“Stand up for yourself” and “take advantage of”
Is it correct to use verb stem + desu?
How do I really say “I study in the United States”?
Meaning of いい具合に in this sentence
What is the Japanese equivalent for words like 'go' in 'go team!'?
How to properly express my happiness - しあわせになりました。
止める vs 止める(とめる and やめる) + 息
Usage of loan words in contrast with native Japanese word
Meaning of さすれば as a verb
Differences in usage between する and やる
Meaning and usage of やっぱり (矢っ張り)
Differences of 規範 vs 基準 vs 標準
Difference between の and から for denoting a reason/explanation
分かっています and 知っています - Do they all mean “I know”? [duplicate]
Difference between 類推する and 推測する
Why 喜んで in 喜んであなたのお手伝いをします。is in some sort of imperative voice and not in passive voice?
だけど (used at the end of a sentence)
In a text, how to tell the difference between a date (of the year) and days/months?
〜みたい / 〜らしい grammar difference [duplicate]
Meaning of って in this sentence
How useful is furigana for most adults and teenagers?
The meaning of いずれ in this context
Is こんこん onomatopoeia for foxes?
Meaning of 自分で呼んどいて
Usage of 申し上げない and 申し訳ない in contrast with すみません or ごめんなさい [closed]
The meaning of the particles in “Yume no naka futari de ita yo ne”
When to use which one ? かもしれない、たぶん、もしかしたら
Do I use おいくつ also for other people?
Why can't だ be used after an I-adjective?
What does どうも mean in this sentence?
Why deshou in casual speech?
Why can だって have so many meanings?
Why is -ng transcribed as ング?
Function of であって
how to complement the させる＋くれる
Is ~楽しんでいただけましたら、幸いです past tense or not?
Understanding grammar in 五省
How do Japanese people infer if a verb is a ichidan verb or a godan ending in ru?
Can someone explain me the use of は and が in this sentence?
Understanding 場合、断っています
How can I tell something's size in Japanese?
What is おばあちゃん子?
General guidelines for choosing 訓読み vs. 音読み in kanji reading
Can 中型 be used to describe a room or building?
The use of “ている”
What does この度は mean?
Can 奪う be a synonym of 殺す?
Ordering food at a restaurant with 私は何々がいい
Why is there a ど in 体こそ違えど記憶…? [duplicate]
Why does the person who wants to cancel an appointment say キャンセルさせてください to his/her partner?
Target of を in 何をするのが好きですか？
“No ga” … — what's this grammar rule?
What does ってさ mean?
Interesting usage of the phrase「心までは砕ける」
What does と after volitional form mean?
What does 「コロリ、コロリと」 mean?
Meaning of に in アルバイトの人などに売る数
Difference between 読んだ本 and 読まれた本?
Using verb + “n desu”, “n da” in questions and in statements and with no confirmation
Tally Marks in Japanese?
What does 美味しい mean when referring to a person?
Which is correct for the bushido code, 誠 or 真?
Japanese term for backwards
Japanese terms for an attribute and adverbial (part of a sentence)
What is 中 after a verb?
Difference between 判断・判定・決定する?
How to express in Japanese “to mark” something?
What is the difference between 発行する and 作成する when talking about documents?
When can AはBです mean 'A has B'
Difference between 彼はかなり英語が上手です and 彼の英語はかなり上手です
Text explanation
Pronouncing ichigo
〜んだった to express regret?
Confusion regarding “go” and “ko” in hiragana
What Japanese word is used as a classification for all profanities?
What do all these の's do in this sentence? [closed]
Term for “maybe” when answering a question in conversation
What does 使わずに mean?
I cannot recognize this kanji
Understanding nounと考える
What is the difference between 氏 and さん？
What is the difference between 処置 and 措置?
Are バレー (volleyball) and　バレエ (ballet) pronounced differently?
The meanings of ものだ
How do I say the term cold as in the sickness, in Japanese? [closed]
Verb (nai form) + れ or passive voice without ます/る?
Connotations of words referring to anger
「このＸのＹ」– What does この refer to?
Meaning of 〜くらいには and a tricky sentence
Are particles pronounced with nouns or verbs as one word all the time?
What term is used to describe the color of the Japanese race?
What is what: ラベル vs シール
Is there a lingustic term for okurigana omission?
Full Sentence of 言わせておけば
What does the highlighted portion of this handwritten Kanji say?
Breaking down だと感じる
I can't identify this kanji from pokemon moon
Is there any single word expression that means “same”
Is it unusual in a noticeable way to slant your Japanese writing?
The sentence structure of 内容を必ず確認のうえ
Icebreakers to use with strangers
Understanding 行ってどうすんだ
What is the term for not making eye contact?
Is aniki more “rude” than niisan?
Which is the correct meaning for 保護猫? Protected cat or protecting cat?
What is the use of 〜ようとしている?
When to use 受身形 (passive voice) And when to use 能動形 (active voice)?
The root of the word soboro which means streusel
noun + verb + comparative degree + than I thought
Ending letters with ~~よりご多幸を祈って
What is the name of “grass” used to garnish a bento (takeout meal)?
What is the name of the service called to drive one's car home after drinking?
Usage of 焚き付ける in this sentence
Why is it said 「サークルで使う」 and not 「サークルに使う」
What does がばっ mean?
Is it correct to read 黒川 as くろかわ or is くろがわ correct?
Are Japanese “tenses” aspects in disguise?
Usage of の following て-form in お申し込みにあたってのご注意
Why does this sentence have 帰って来なさい?
VたにはVた　VS　VるにはVた
Senryū 川柳 is it Sino-Japanese or Yamato
What is the Japanese word that sounds like English word “Nonsense” and what is its meaning?
Is there a difference between using 「である」 and 「の」 before 「はず」?
To deny something you've been told?
What is the large silver “button” used to fasten rear Japanese license plate on vehicles called?
Is レジ used as a contraction of registration?
How to say “trapped” in Japanese
Difference between 居ます and 住む
数詞 + も suitable location
Variations in the “same” kanji, how do you know which one to use?
Meaning of 世帯主 in 住民票
Why Do Japanese People Use the Kanji 塚 in their Names?
A how + adjective question
Is “うん” really used to mean “You're welcome” by children?
Appending 物 to certain adjectives
(Mahjong) What does this sentence mean: 対局の間一度も飛ばされない
How would you say 'it is', or 'OK'?
What is the role of と in this case?
What term can I use to address my neighbor, if I don't know their name?
Cannot understand this passage
What does mean 濾るま湯?
tips how to pass N5 [closed]
Meaning and transitivity of ゴミ袋を手に立ち上がる
Why does くださる have an irregular infinitive form (ください)?
How egregious a mistake is it to use the wrong reading for a number when counting?
What is the use of the passive conjugation in these sentences?
Is there a better term than 保護シート for the sheets drunks and criminals are wrapped in?
Using すみません instead of ありがとう
Translation of 要領が悪い
What is the difference between a verb's 名詞修飾型 and 辞書形
What is the “rice milling commission” on sake? [closed]
「Aの運営は，Bとの連携のもと，C業務を遂行する。」の解析
What is the difference between 生成{せいせい} and 作成{さくせい}?
Which of these sentences is correct?
why is 剃刀 read as kamisori? [duplicate]
More complicated examples of allotting items with ずつ
Historical prospective of ウ音便 transformation (e.g. 有難く => 有難う)
What is the name for each day of the Obon Festival?
What does お楽しみおしています mean?
Which option is best for saying “I remembered to put a pen in my bag”
How to express “We the …”, “We who are …”
What is the small tray called when paying for something in person?
いいことですね vs. いいですね
What is the difference between these three sentences
取り立てて話題がない why are there two てs in this sentence?
Looking for the proverb “Parents work hard, our life is so comfortable that children become beggar”
Is 大判小判 a word on its own?
Help me to understand やらなきゃいけない and やらなきゃならない
difference in position with 後 [duplicate]
What is the difference between 約款{やっかん} and 契約{けいやく}?
Could 十角形、九角形、七角形 be read as デカゴン、ノナゴン、ヘパタゴン？
夏目漱石　「心」　Confused by use of いた in apparent relative clause
Is this sentence 私の家族の一人は痩せて、かわいい the correct translation of
Implicit meaning of お前にも and 自分にも
What is the proper response to いらっしゃいませ？
Difference between してこのかた and して以来
How is 何者にもなれない translated?
What is the character etymology of 着 ?
What is the Japanese meaning of the name “Kakka”?
How to say something is 'easy to learn'?
What is the meaning/usage of 瞶?
Does it sound unnatural to say “タダイマ” after someone says “オカエリ” to you?
The ending with “da”
Meaning of 端っこ & 近ポジ & what's that character? (picture inside)
Cases where “に” cannot mean “at”
Is it しゅしょうor そうりだいじん when referring to the Prime Minister of Japan?
What's the difference between “shitsurei shimasu”, “shitsurei”, “sore de wa”, and “sayōnara”?
dōmo vs arigatō gozaimasu vs dōmo arigatō [duplicate]
Particle question with 「以内」：「に」 or 「で」
How to choose the aspect of 困る?
how and when to use ～たく思います
Adjectives ending in 「〜やか」
Can ようにする be used without する in colloquial speech?
Specific use of になる together with て-form
What does いや、これで見つからないと俺としましては逆に大変なことになるのですmean?
How can the well-known Tintin become タンタン in Japanese?
A kanji with 108 strokes
“What am I doing here?”/ Excuse yourself
How do I ask a person to use something?
ある vs. いる in regards to 親 and 責任
Negative questions : Normal Vs Explanation seeking
How do we say ''Please give me your advice'' in Japanese?
Is なびっくる a variant of びっくり
Why is there no marker used after 寒さの中?
When you ask someone to do a favour, what is the difference between くれますか and もらいますか?
一人だけ来ました　potential interpretations
Discussion about kanji being words
How is ください　used?
Unfindable word 爆絶級 in Japanese Mario Maker level name
How to say “to nothing” with a positive verb in Japanese?
What is じゃけぇ supposed to mean?
Difference between 普段 and 通常
Difference between 長い間 and 長期間
「お誕生日には何をされたんですか」Why される?
Is there omission after the とparticle in the text? [duplicate]
Nuance and conversational use of なきにしもあらず
How many different ways are there of saying words?
Can I write katakana words in alternative ways?
What's the difference between kyōshi and sensei? [duplicate]
When describing time span, are 間 {あいだ} and 内 {うち} interchangeable?
Why is there a noun at the end of this sentence?
Can we say 「ほとんどの日本人と韓国人も中国系である。」?
How can I parse わけでもない?
What does どうも do when added to ありがとう or ありがとうございます?
Is 云 related to 𠫓 in any way?
I'm having trouble understanding the sentance どうだい、きに いったかい
What does 「もっともな気がする」 mean?
How to refer to something from a certain country?
Why is the passive form used in this sentence?
夏目漱石：「心」　“勧まない”
Why is こと used at the end of this sentence?
Usage of 「～に繋げる」
Meaning ans translation of 「取り組み」
What is the meaning of the characters in the picture? [closed]
The particle に when used with 移動する
What does this usage of 'ち' represent? [duplicate]
How to say “you would [do that] if…”
Is かぐや姫 pronounced “Ka-gu-ya” or “Kag'-ya”?
What does 「学校が学校」, 「年が年」and such mean exactly?
Why does 「でも」make question words mean 'any'?
How do I apologise for my bad kanji/for using hiragana?
Meaning of てさ after て form
Are 頂きます and ご馳走さま used when eating in public?
Is this a wrong translation of the negative?
Can I eat here?/ Is it ok to eat here? in Japanese
仮名 - Japanese syllabary or a character of such, but what is behind this 熟語 spelling?
In conversation can you just say “万円です” or must you say “一万円です”?
What's the word order of the nouns in this sentence?
How to pronounce ぎ? [duplicate]
テキ in 形声: 適・滴・嫡・摘・敵・鏑
Is あえて言わなかった ambiguous? “not dare to say” or “dare not to say”?
Reading numbers in Japanese numeral-by-numeral instead of as a number
日々 vs 毎日 - usage
操{みさお} : too many translations to be true
Can a contrast be implied without using けど for example?
What is the difference between 遅れ気味 and 遅れがち?
What does の mean in this sentence? [duplicate]
Facebook Quote Translation Informal Language [closed]
What is the meaning of ワケ in this sentence?
Etymology of 方忌み
What is the origin of がち in 病気がち?
What is the difference between 立つ and 起つ?
When can に be used instead of で and vice-versa? [duplicate]
ことにする versus ようにする
Why do most Japanese newspapers, magazines and books read from back to front?
Why do I hear a lot of “L” sounds in Japanese music?
Is there any difference between 使ってみましょう and 使いましょう？
Is there a difference between botchan and musuko-san? [duplicate]
Difference between 気をつけて, お大事に and お元気で
ビル (biru) or 建物 (tatemono) as a translation for 'building' in Japanese?
What is the difference between 引き渡し and 受け渡し?
Can 私の手伝いをするの mean “the help I do”?
What is the meaning of ついクセ in this sentence?
The usage of noun+すること
mittsu vs san - what's the difference and what are these two forms called?
Trying to ID a printed character that looks like a script M
かかれ as used in the expression「ナメてかかれ」
Politeness vs. Formality
Grammar explanation of ほおっておいて
ありませんと - possible interpretations
Understand the difference between [dictionary/ない + ようとする] and [volitional + にする]
How to parse にためになる
“As in” in japanese
Japanese idiom for don't let it get to your head?
What is the difference between 会社 and 社 when referring to a company?
Meaning of “verb phrase-ところが、person-にはある”
What does たまる mean when it is connected to て?
おでこ vs ひたい - is there any difference?
ichi-gatsu vs hitotsuki
Parsing 彼には映画監督になるという夢があります
Translation of 気を遣わせたことへの申し訳なさ
What is 思う doing in this sentence?
General expression for the age of something
もしドラ translation, baseball terminology 野手の要
Understanding the true meaning in this sentence
What is the meaning of もう and もじ? [closed]
How to say “to take in” when in reference to people?
is suki an adjective and a verb?
Why do onyomis have so many extra syllables?
Usage of 「V+見込みです」
What is the difference between 馴染む and 慣れる?
アパートは多少遠くても、安い方がいい。
why it's needed a second に in the sentence 東京に行くには何で行きますか?
Is this sentence structured correctly? (Explaining time difference)
Looking for some examples of ambiguous sentences with compound particles [closed]
Is my Hiragana understandable? [closed]
What does 御用人 mean?
Confused by the meaning of ~なかな at the end of a sentence [closed]
“I don't want to go all the way to New York only for her to end up being with someone else”
What is the meaning of で in this sentence
How to address someone in an email who referred to themselves as part of a department
Why is a foreign person's middle initial written in romaji instead of katakana?
Interpreting the particles in this sentence
When まで is preceded with a time, does it include that time?
What does しきみたい in おばけやしきみたい mean?
Why are some country names written in kanji and yet others are written in katakana?
Difficulties understanding one sentence
SEOプラグインにおけるlocationは何を意味するのでしょうか？ What does “location” mean within a SEO plugin [closed]
Referring to someone's home in sonkeigo
幾人も or 一杯? Kanji or hiragana?
Question about consequential clause after conditional clause using 「たら」
What does 入ってなかった mean?
What is 殺虫剤たいたら?
What is the correct usage for 確認致しました上?
How to say “Getting/experiencing through different situations”?
What does のに mean at the end of this sentence?
Order of multiple nouns and adjectives modifying the same noun
Some congratulations phrases for birthday?
How to say “unit tests are passing”
What is the antonym for 失意?
Nである程度 ― the degree to which one is N
I could not understand this sentence entirely
What does また mean in this sentence?
Confusing use of ようになる
What is the difference between にしては and としては? [duplicate]
what form 死ねたのに is?
What does なら mean in メンバーを１人紹介するなら？
Passive Verb + みる
How to say “Evaluation of practical experience (=internship) and it's contribution”
The usage of 土日, 週末 and 休日
What is な role here?
Using of あたまおかしい in various situation and translation
Meaning of 誰もいはしない in this sentence
Nuance of request to replace ramen cups
JLPT N3 Grammar - Passive form AND passive + te iru
What are the purposes of としたら, とすれば, とすると?
How to say “after thinking about it”?
How can you tell if the causative means “let” or “make”?
No word for “time” until 1871?
Multiple Choice Question on JLPT N5 Test
Describing facial expression
What is the difference between てくる/ていく and 〜始める/〜続ける?
How to get the right meaning of particles
Is に optional in this sentence?
What is the recommended timing for あけおめ ことよろ?
Use of 方 in sentence (かた or ほう?) + translation
What does the word 「ぽやっと」 mean?
Transitive verbs where the direct object is a clause
Can ぐらい be used to replace ごろ?
Meaning of My担当氏
“半日のツアーはありますか。” question
Meaning of “そりゃあまぁ”
What is the purpose of “けど?” at the end of this sentence [duplicate]
Using 貴様 {きさま}​ as a joke?
Proper translation for 忘れやすく動きに時間がかかる
What is 'では‘ and how is it used?
Person I Like vs Person Who Likes Me
ように at the end of a relative clause
Meaning of more Kishi Bashi lyrics: けや けや それや どうせね
Difference between あらそう and あらがう
Understanding and translating 健気
Meaning of と in 友蔵が出おくれまいと言いそえた
Meaning of 取り消してくれ in this sentence
What is the subject of sentence with ください?
Difference between くらい and くらいに
Does a small tsu double all consonants?
What are differences between よう, みたい, だろう, らしい, そう, and っぽい?
Difference between しておる and してはおる
Meaning and use of 身柄
Meanings of マジできる
星新一 “消えた大金” short story: what's the point?
Ambiguous use of はなして?
「原因{げんいん}」の熟語{じゅくご}の成り立ちは？
meaning of ~そうじゃない
Does every kanji come from a Chinese character? If so, where can I find the origins of a kanji?
Why is a verb in the past (た形) contradicted with ～ていない?
What does 「社会に向けて作品を問う」 mean?
ってなる what does it mean?
Can you use ーられない to express that something is unbearable?
What does おなり mean in this sentence?
what means 耳障りのいい?
Remembering when to use [原]{げん} and when to use [源]{げん}?
また as moreover?
What is the meaning of 贅沢 in this sentence?
Are there any difference between N and the nominalization of Nする?
Understanding tense in 見たまんまだ
the meaning of ももたらず
Why does this sentence mean what it means?
Saying かわいい to a guy
When do I use ほう with より?
Meaning of でも or ちょうだい in テレビでも見てちょうだい
「見」＋「も」＋「する」 meaning? [duplicate]
Past negative informal sentence before から
Why can 「先」 be used to discuss future events? [closed]
What is the difference between によると and によりますと?
っては replaced with っちゃ？
Is 〜た / だ (where 〜 a verb) a grammar pattern?
How would one address oneself when speaking to royalty?
いくら＋pronoun＋でも usage/meaning
Span of time - Does the pronunciation stays the same as it rotates from 1-10? [duplicate]
Is あたんなはれ in Kansai-ben “get yourself warm”? What verb does it come from?
What is the use of 他（ひと）in this sentence?
Equivalent of saying “I think, …” for when you're not 100% sure of what you say?
Does てれり mean “blush” in this gif file?
How to spell the name Yana?
What's the difference between 度 and 回? [duplicate]
What does adding と after an adverb do? [duplicate]
からなら vs からでないと JLPT N2
What are the differences between ～ばいい, ～たらいい, and ～たほうがいい? [duplicate]
Omitting を in writing
Confusing use of けど
の (no) vs. こと (koto)
What does 「／＼」 mean in this sentence?
言おう used here, I dont understand the grammar
Adding さん to places [duplicate]
Does 星月夜 mean Starry Night?
What does the word [執こく]{しつこく} mean?
Meaning of つぶやく
What is おりません? Possible typo?
それだけ　in this sentence?
What does「ゝ」mean?
Two different usages of なんぞに?
Four verbs meaning “to pursue”: 追う, 追いかける, 追っかける and 辿る
Is there a difference between 海{うみ} and 海原{うなばら}?
How to understand どうかしましたか? [closed]
Does 不幸{ふこう} always carry a “stronger” idea than 悲{かな}しみ?
Shin Kanzen Master has a Chinese element?
Is there a reason why [中]{ちゅう}[古]{こ} means used/second-hand items ?
Question about the sentence 私が手伝いましょう。
有り難う vs 有難う — Is this the same word?
What is the connotation of calling someone “Kozaru Shichinosuke”?
What does やって mean in やって来ない？
Understanding この年にして in this sentence
Difference between うちに and うちから
What is the meaning of 家 in this context?
Can one say なそうです instead of だそうです when expressing hearsay?
How to express the reason for scolding someone
Meaning of イメージ in context of disclaimer
Grammatical explanation of 「X～Yのうち、いずれか一仕様とする」 expression
What does ていた mean?
Particle「も」in the sentence 「夏休みももう終わりだ」。
How to know the difference between two words with same pronunciation?
Use of いける in this sentence
Is there an English equivalent to 「ふん」とする
Using たら, how do I say “would have” instead of “would”
For phrase, “For book owners.”
What's the difference between によって、次第、and 応じて?
Difference between 守らせてあげる and 守ってあげる
Does もっと act on nouns or predicates or both?
What is the difference between 行くなら and 行けば [duplicate]
必ずしも within this sentence
How to count with rare counters
What is the meaning of 範囲等の申請範囲 in this sentence?
Is this translation correct?
「リエゾン」に、さらなる意味が？
How 「何と言えばいいのかわからない」 works
Does であるため mean “due to” or “for” in this sentence?
(Verb + こと) = “The thing I did” vs “Doing”
Which is more normal, “OK” or “オーケー”?
Understanding a broken sentence with stuttering
What's the difference between 仕事 and 働く?
Difference between になる / である / の
Is there any phrase similar to “may he rest in peace”?
噌 variants in different fonts
What is the meaning of 提出図書?
Is there a difference between saying この時計は 高いです。 and 高い時計です。
When to use these plain Te-Forms?
Meaning of verb phrase-ことだって、ある
Difference between し and たり
Difference between 母 and 妣
whats the nuances of interjections え？ は？ そうか ? and 何だ？
Meaning of ただ in conjunction with 今
Which is correct, 静かだったばかり or 静かばかりだった to mean “It was just quiet, that's all”
Combination of verb + ことも
Are there rules for omitting にin phrases?
きている in this sentence? [closed]
Missing noun in sentence using ほど
Can 気づく be used with quotation と?
Understanding とは in this sentence
Is 〜てある commonly used with verbs other than 書く?
Can もとい be used as a noun describing the correction or the fact of correction?
Is すごく怖 bad, or good?
Is it just me, or is “ryokai” pronounced “yokai” regularly?
how does “Hitori hitori ga chiisana yume wo Daite kyou mo samayoi aruku ” translates into this?
Provisional + いい + ん + だろ
いる or ある for the possession of a living thing
Why is it 神様のいない日曜日 and not 神様いないの日曜日?
whats the different usages of interjections ちがう, いえ, いや?
「ひゃっくり」ってどこの方言？
Does 彼女は私と一緒にいればよかった mean wish she WAS with me or wish she HAD been with me?
Meaning of verb + の+ ではないかという
Sarcastic dialogue
「沢庵石」とは、いったいなんですか？
Adjective + Tokoro Ga
で role in 他言無用でお願いします
「でしなに」とは、どういうこと？
「カンカン」という俗語あるいは方言
What does 振り回して mean in this context?
動詞＋てか a subtle grammatical nuance or an error?
Help with constructing “yesterday I took a nap for a half hour” in Japanese
What's the meaning of 凛として時雨?
What does 緊張感{きんちょうかん} in this sentence mean?
Buzzwords 2016: びっくりぽん
Help with text to Host mom!
What is the difference between てある and the passive (ら)れる? [duplicate]
Position of な in this sentence
Using polite form for neutral subjects
What is the diffrence between hiragana and katakana? [duplicate]
what's the different of usages of [そう, ああ, うん, いいよ]?
Help understanding N＋でいる+ N
When angry we shout “F***!”, but what do 日本人 shout?
Difference between 気軽 and 気楽
What does とか mean in this sentence?
Closed:　[休]{きゅう}〜 vs. [閉]{へい}〜
Rules for 「みたいな感じ」（なっていってるみたいな感じ？）
How to refer to kana verbally
Understanding what 逆に means in context with an emotion
Saying goodbye to a store clerk
Confused on why 日の出 and 日の入り mean what they do
What does 契約期間:2年 mean?
Difference between 前に and うちに
the meaning of たまに and んだ
Another は and に question for 「わたしゃキモチ悪くて見れないんだよ」
Translation of bubble needed [closed]
What is the grammatical form for the ungrammatical 昨日雨が降ったそうだ?
恥知らず【はじしらず】 versus 厚顔無恥【こうがんむち】
How would I express the sentiment “Remind me again tomorrow”?
Meaning of がな at the end of this sentence
problem to find this kanji
the に行きます construction and particles
what does sho ga nai mean? [closed]
Why does は refer to a particular rather than general in some cases?
Can homophonic kanji (in this case 怨 and 恨) be used purely to avoid repetition?
Confusing use of とたん in 「来たとたん何か用かよ」
What does the thing B said mean? [closed]
How Could One Read 4649?
Is there any definitional or etymological nuance between the English「Princess」and the Japanese「姫」？
Difference between 助ける【たすける】 and 救う【すくう】
What is the meaning of と in this sentence?
How are “サ変名詞” and “サ変接続” different?
What does the pattern [xはxで] mean?
Tense in noun modifying clauses?
くゆえて or くめえて word-request
Help with understanding or properly translating small paragraph
“まゆんだ”の意味はなんですか？
What term do you use to find Japanese e-cards
Meaning of だかどうだか
Can't find the meaning of 「パー」
add a verb to a noun without interpose nothing in between
Japanese idiom equivalent to “Fat Fingered"
For laying out Japanese text in a piece of graphic design do you need to stick to some rules? [closed]
“jikuu o koete haruka tabi suru bokura” why this phrase is written this way?
Meaning of the verb 受ける in the phrase 試験を受ける
what does クソリプ means?
Which word should I use for “lesbian”?
What's the etymology of 風呂?
Uses of さあ、まあ and なんか
「その夕食から1日おいて」One day or two?
Meaning of 時間がありますか。
なってしまいました conjugation
What is the basic underlying idea of ～がある?
Two implicitly specified distinct subjects in a single sentence
Nominalisation and は
What does こゆびくらい mean?
Should 入れる be used to express 'cutting with scissors' as a general action?
Understanding ただより高いものはない
How would you say “please give me 10 of this”?
What is the meaning of this sentence?
How to say “In order not to make her angry but make her delighted”?
Why do we believe that 神 is likely to be a loan from Ainu?
Is [mathematical] 'analysis' in Japanese the same word as 'fine cuisine' in Japanese?
How to differentiate the receiver of favor(giving) and the receiver of verb?
What kind of grammar is it in 調査に調査を重ねて?
「今はいない」as a response to 「彼女いるの？」
What does 追い付け飛び付け mean?
counters for weight?
“Te-form” versus “masu-stem + して” (消しているうちに versus 消ししているうちに)
Japanese for Vegan & Vegetarians
Help understanding how particles and structure (∅, より, ようと, を) affect this translation
Understanding わりかし
What to use, 合繊で or 合繊から？
Function of the sentence final particle こと in this sentence
How to understand (and translate) this magic spell?
Repetitive words (e.g. どんどん, ぺらぺら, いらいら…)
Is 微妙で繊細な a redundant phrase?
Shitai desu and shimasu
what's the difference between 体 and 肉体?
Greeting for a newborn baby?
Non-literal bringing of something to somewhere
Meaning of おられる姿
What does 奸閥 mean?
ている vs てある in resultant states relating the trans/intransitive verb and が/を
Why are English loanwords so much more popular than Chinese ones?
What's the difference between すべき (subeki) and べき (beki)?
What's the difference between 選び (erabi) and せんたくし (sentakushi)?
「こんなに」と「こんな風に」difference?
What's the difference between dato, nanode and kara?
What is a good strategy to make sure my Hiragana proportions are correct? [closed]
What's the difference between 創造的{そうぞうてき} and 創造性{そうぞうせい}?
Is there a difference when using ～ものか/～もんか?
What is the purpose of に in 特別に上映?
What is the equivalent of ningen for deitys and demons?
Heuristics for identifying Japanese-origin words (和語)
What is the meanig of かるーく?
Differentiate 'niwa“ and ”ni" when indicating a position
What is the meaning of への？
Meaning of にかかっている in this sentence
Does Japanese have a term for toilets that use a rubbish bin for toilet paper?
What's the difference between からには, 以上, and 上は?
What difference between ほしい (hoshii) and したい (shitai)?
The meaning of「無理のない予定で構いません。」
Term for a goodbye that takes a long time
What is the difference between 点字 and 点字表記?
Meaning of 添い遂げる in this sentence
What does 'na' at the end of a word mean?
Studying Japanese is difficult, but fun
Help parsing 無事勝利
Use of もの in this sentence
Please help me translate this sentence from english to japanese
How do Japanese people mark checklists?
What's the difference between 何が and 何を in a question?
looking for a haiku maybe written by Sasaki Sadako
What's the difference between 検索 and 探索?
How would “nihonium” be written in Japanese Kanji?
Difference between two sentences
Correct use of 国語
Looking for a single phrase, word or even proverb for “always being condemned for whatever someone does”
日本語における relative clause (関係詞節?) とは？
sentences ending in “を”
Keigo: if the question doesn't concern neither the speaker nor the listener which form should i write
Curious about the phrase “しまいと” in a book I'm reading
The correct English translation for ～ことがある
Help me understand 言ってみただけだよ
んじゃない vs んじゃなかった in questions
Is これから a fixed phase? What does it mean?
Asking if someone has seen something: difference between 見た and 見たことがある
Meaning of よく見りゃ
Meaning of まん in ほっとかれちゃたまんない
Are there any other words for bucket relay バケツリレー?
Is there a term for whether kanji or kana is used?
Why does は change the entire sentence?
How to describe a way of something?
Whats the difference between ぢ and じ? [duplicate]
Understanding ものだ to make general statements
How to say “ever” in this context
How to say regrets [I should not have X]
How to say “Comes along with ____.”?
What are the general patterns of child-directed speech in Japanese?
can いなければ actually mean いなくて?
Help understanding 「そのタイトルのリストに次に載るのは俺だ」
Meaning of 乗ったほうがいい
Meaning of 調子よい
Are there morphological rules to “build” transitive/interactive verb pairs?
Meaning of 「人って」in the following sentence
Can 全部 be used like 「全部の月は忙しいですか？」
Meaning of 「そのまま入れるから」 in this context
Meaning of 言っとくれぃ
The difference between　「楽しいです」、「楽しみにする」 and 「楽しみにしている」
What would someone saying … ンなこと mean?
What does ます形 + そうになった mean?
Alternative translation
Both on'yomi and kun'yomi in a first name?
Writing a story in Japanese: how to handle dialogue
Can someone help me with this sentence?
Please help me with this sentence “細かいところは後で決めましょう”
Pronouncing ない as ねい / ねえ (also ~oi to ~ei)
equivalent version of 'The daily grind'
Verbs with までに can they work?
について as a topic marker
~ta ra / ~たら volitional [closed]
How to say “i just want to do X right now”
One word responses that mean 'awesome' / 'excellent'
Difference in usage of きる and ぬく attached to verb 連用形
Is there a connection between the Chinese 鱼(fish, or yu) and ゆ(yu) looking like a fish?
JLPT N3 Practice Grammar 2 ついた
JLPT N3 Practice Vocabulary 2 すこしでは ありませんが
How do you say “When I was in high school I took (guitar) lessons”
Can we replace 持っていく with 持ってくる in this case?
Can I replace 存在 with ある in this sentence?
How can I write “tchi”
Verb+koto+mo soshite Verb+koto+mo nai. Should both words with mo particles be affected by nai at the end?
What does ま？ mean?
the particle も in 「ここには１人もしっている人がいません」
What's the topic of 「彼の本は赤いです。」?
What is the purpose of putting 「のは」 at the end of a sentence?
Can I use だけ and しか with amounts?
What is the meaning, usage, etc. of でもない?
“Song Cover” in Japanese
Translation of “It was only after/not until…”
What does the phrase 「はきゃあがって」 mean?
How が becomes the object marker for desire(~たい)
Describing a 'Sanctuary' as in a safe place and not a shrine or church?
Meaning of 僕も兎だった
How is し used as a verb in this sentence?
Restructuring a long sentence when translating
Translation of sentence and why is a kereba used in this sentence?
How should I translate “If I have some” in this sentence?
Difficult conjugation
What's the difference between 大州 and 大陸?
“お休みなさい” not appropriate between male neighbours?
Difference between 今週の週末でもいい? and 今週の週末はいい?
JLPT N3 Practice Grammar 1…かた
What does 次行ってみよう mean?
Words implied after saying “終わりだ。何も。” in footage of the Mar. 2011 tsunami?
Topic particles
Is the conditional form of a verb treated like a regular verb or a noun/na-adjective?
Can you write the japanese name Hideyoshi as 秀代志
Different ways of saying “X continues / keep doing X”
Can 〜んとする mean “to pretend, to act as if”?
What does 鏡越し mean in this sentence?
What does this mean? - help with 続き and なら
The path to 楽しみ
Translation of 何かにつけて
The verb かける in this sentence
Lexical Gap translation help!
Can't find this character in the dictionary [duplicate]
What does tsui mean in this context?
How is v-ta no used?
Is there a term for “blue balls” in Japanese?
Can we predict if a kanji has a reading that ends in long う
Is it ok if I leave kanji I don't know out?
“But it is true that…” in japanese
Conditional sentence translation
Why is だ used with question words such as 何だ?
Why is だ used with question words such as 何だ?
What are the small kana words put above kanji called?
Meaning of “Denshosha” - Memory Keeper
Ways to say 'rather than'
Meaning of てなわけで at the start of a sentence
Clarify the difference between 間違い and 違い
Translation of the word “informational” and “orientational”
Translation of the word “describe/ description”
Strange form of ki ni naru
What does 在日 stand for?
Why is もっと pronounced “motto” but written “motsuto”?
Where Does ギブソンタック Come from?
How to call the stuffs you usually do (in bathroom) after get up at the morning?
What is the Japanese word for some kind of a technical diary for a machine (＝機械)"?
A scene from the Disney story “Aladdin”
Is there any difference when pronouncing 橋 and 箸?
How does “xxxのオニ” equate to “xxx is bullying/picking on me”?
Is usage of を片手に necessary in this paragraph?
Why is answer A (遊べるために) wrong in this question?
What is the Equivalent of Adding -er to a verb to make it “One who does x”?
What does 肩の凝る mean?
How are ambiguous “brother” and “sister” typically translated into Japanese?
What's the difference between 壁 and 塀?
How to read percentage?
Literal meaning of 打ってあります in this sentence
How are the suffixes ーまる and ーめる used?
What's the meaning of “冒頭の言葉”?
Please help me read this board
知らない used in “I don't care”
Different interpretations of 見ることのできない
help me understand a few elements in this sentence
Masu stem to connect sentences
Difference between にすれば　にしたら　にしてみれば “from the viewpoint of…”
What is the difference between jibiki and jisho?
と's role in 「それは触ると柔らかい」
Baggu vs Kaban - Is there any difference
What is the origin/etymology of the phrase “ばかな” meaning “impossible!”
About the Meaning of 〜ことに〜
The usage of な to make an entire clause modify a noun, and “Alice is a desirable person” versus “Person that likes Alice”
Occurrence of っ in verb stems
Cooking in Japanese with verbs
What's the difference between 自転車 and チャリ?
How can I read this kanji (Image attached)
「～もの、それは…」 Atypical sentence structure?
Word choice for 'please' when begging?
What is the difference between a daimon and a mon or kamon?
Do I need to use passive form here? “The mirror is broken due to his/her ugly face”
Nominalization of Conditionals to Use With 気がつく (realize)
Difference between とかの + noun and とか + noun
How is 中 read in 「昨日寝る中で電話がありました。」？
How to understand 節がある?
Did “soshite” develop from an overused “te”-form?
What does 今からしようとしてたところよ mean?
How do I express “I slept in a tent” in Japanese?
ロボットは人間に怪我をさせてはいけない＝robot must not make human do harm?
Twitter post.Particles し、との、なれました
Who's going what in 「溺愛する一人息子」
持っていること vs 持っていたこと
Meaning of the sentence : 「成すべきことを成す」
Saying “Hello” to family members?
Meaning of 逃げ出した 先に in this sentence
How to say “mix speech styles”?
What's the difference between shokumotsu (食物) and tabemono (食べ物),
Meaning of も and は in this sentence
How ~てある and ~ておいた differs?
Greeting when meeting somebody a second time in the day?
Please help me understand this sentence: あなたに、私の両親に会ってもらいたいんですが。
Meaning of それどうする気
Capital Letters translating from english to japanese, help?
Is it appropriate to say “Konbanwa” when ending a conversation?
how to interpret 内緒で買ってこなくちゃ
て used as “because”?
What's the most common way of describing weed?
I'm unable to identify the last character in this picture
My cat is snoring!
Is 坊っちゃん a normal word for someone else's son?
what does きにするようにして mean?
how to understand the それ+X differences
How to read these algebraic formulas?
What does ところ mean in this sentence?
How to say “I want to rub my face on your cat's fluffy fur” in Japanese
I got corrected 上手し for 上手なので, but why?
けど at the end of the sentence?
Is the verb 「できる」also transitive verb?
What is ある role here?
function of the particle も in 「~も辞さない」
Meaning of まるで in this sentence
Meaning of 無駄に that doesn't fit dictionary meaning
Can も particle be used after adjective/verb + の?
The verb form used before 際
おる in honorific contexts
~ど at the end of a sentence?
こと as an Imperative
How to address a family?
Understanding なにかご承知ですか
そういうふうに meaning
a strategy to learn Japanese [closed]
Japanese word for tangy
How to say “Ok, then I take X” after your first choice is not available
Do loanwords have a more formal/technical/“soulless” feel compared to their native counterparts?
Differences between のに, 関わらず, にも関わらず, and のにも関わらず
Translation of できた and それで in this sentences
Why is もの in this sentence?
Difference between particles に and　は in　あげます/もらいます sentences?
になろうと言った and になると言った
Why is this funny?
Saying “That's exactly what I meant”
I have trouble understanding this: 棚からなんとやらだ
Sentence ending じょ
Is へ really necessary in this phrase?
Help With A Handwritten Sentence
sentence-final -て
What's the difference between 日本人の学生 and 日本の学生 ?
Please help me understand this たる?
会計 kaikei, 勘定 kanjou, チェック chekku and レシート reshiito
Have you eaten enough?
Why is で used in 「大英雄が無職で何が悪い」
Indicate more than one?
Why いた is used instead of いる here? [duplicate]
Usage of ゃ で, when buying countable nouns
Translation of 所属事務所
に as the subject marker?
の function in 以上の
Position of the subject in this sentence
の+じゃなかった? Vs の+ じゃない? Tenses used
Etymology of 金槌
売買の買とbuyの関係はあります？
Why is “Try Again” translated to やり直す?
What's the difference between て form for verbs: 'go' and 'says'
What does 'noun+の+ほかに' mean?
Understanding this English to Japanese translation
Translating: だからというのもあったが
Why is imperative form used here?
入り and 付き in these sentences
Are there any ways to know whether Verbてくる is about time or space?
Difference between 区別 and 分別
Has my textbook got a mistake in it regarding the use of 習う？
What's the difference between まで and までに?
How to respond when someone praises about my Japanese?
What does ツノ in katakana mean?
What does してばかりいる mean?
breaking down [そのほかどういう時に何と言ったらよいかが決まっていて]
How many syllables does くの字点 affect?
Is there an english expression equivalent to 「先祖も酷ければ子孫も子孫」?
Trouble with the sentence 「お手並み拝見てところかな」
Regarding 何と言うか、というのがある
(one piece) バウンドマン means Bounce man or Bound man?
Can adverbs be connected with noun by の particle?
Is 何と read as なにと or なんと in 何と言いましたか?
Is saying Subjectは熱が痛いです correct? I thought we use あります
Difference between ~てから and ~たあとで
In the interrogative お元気ですか, how does the meaning change if the か is removed?
Different meanings of の？
Doubts about some sentences - は usage in combination with other particles
About the kanji 鱈 where 魚's bottom is written as 大
What does 何でしょうか mean?
Can we use “Chikai” for time?
What does 五月雨式 means in this sentence?
Fixing my grammar on a line in my essay
Why does い become く?
What do 限定 and ポイント mean in this sentence about marketing?
what is “reading materials” in Japanese? [closed]
How do you write “Miranda” in Japanese? [closed]
Is お父さん appropriate for formal writing?
why they used -ていれば instead of -ば?
How to use だんだん properly?
“negative te form” vs “te form of the negative”
Is there a poetic or metaphorical meaning to ゆびさき が かたくなる?
What does ああまでされて mean in this sentence?
Difference between 取り替える and 入れ替える
Non conventional usage of the past tense
恥をかく versus 恥をかかされる
Dropping particles in casual speech/songs
Can 牛 be an insult?
Usage of である in this sentence
Meaning of もっとも in the following sentences
Love in the air: 愛ｘ恋 {あい vs こい}
Double negative not making sense
Connecting Sino-Japanese verbs
What does ここじゃ何だ means in this sentence?
他三篇 in a book title
Meaning of adj-なるときゃなる
How can I ask for “two of each” (cream and sugar) at a cafe?
How to ask “Is your name common in Japan?”
Meaning of コミックス派
how could I interpret 後に in this sentence?
Is the English word “ikebana” a suitable translation for “華道”?
Origin of ません (-masen)?
X wa Y ga suki desu
Difference between 委嘱状・任命状・任命証
Understanding もういいかげん、このままならずに済む
What does 君って mean here?
Doubt about syntax [duplicate]
A question about the usage of なるべく
Difference in ambiguity between written and spoken Japanese?
How does the にして work here?
Confused by use of自分 here
Does トイレ refer to the British “toilet” or the American “toilet”?
What meaning does the にあって have in this phrase?
What is 背が高い and how is it different from 高い
How to distinguish between passive and potential forms of the verb?
How to say “You are lying!”
Help to confirm word I heard on television show “Sekkai!”
What does ルツクハ mean?
Can you form verbs from 擬態語 or 擬音語 by adding -る?
Do transitive verbs require a subject when translated? How to deal with inferred subjects?
What does 判断裁量 mean here? [closed]
汁, ジュース and スープ
How do you translate: 一番頭がいい
Is 「闇を抜けて」 grammatical?
“nan” in “kore wa nan desu ka”
Meaning of 無難に行く
What does みてえじゃ in this sentence mean?
Is it rude to always attach furigana to every Kanji used in letters directed to superiors?
How is the と　particle being used here?
When to refer or address someone with their name
What is the difference between 〜ている and 〜中?
The wind sound “どう” in 風の又三郎
What does というのは、[…]のことを mean in this sentence?
Must I use past tense before 後?
Meaning of 「全て込めて解き放て」 in this song (“Brand New World” by Shiena Nishizawa)
Meaning of 何とやら in this sentence
How to denote the object and the subject of potential form verbs clearly?
Can you add です after a plain form of a verb?
What is the correct way to say “Please select the best one from the available options”?
「ついでの」in this context
Is it いる or ある with 物の怪? (Are ghosts animate or inanimate?)
What is the difference between 混ぜる and かき混ぜる?
Parsing and meaning of 口を開かずにはいられなかった
How does ～ないことには and ～なければ differ?
Why is くれる used here and not あげる
Usage of 「と」 in these 2 sentences, conditional or quotation? And how to differentiate
Indirect questions nested inside phrases
Confusion when counting students per grade in 風の又三郎
What does なんて mean in these sentences?
Can なし be used in response to a binary question?
What does よく mean in よく長時間働かせる?
世界に vs 世界的に, when to use?
Use of から　which means “from”, for i-adjective
What is the definition of a 街開き?
What is the meaning of Sankyo in Japanese companies names
Can someone help explain the difference between Hajimeru and Hajimaru? [duplicate]
Describing a shrine, just not a Shinto shrine?
What does 彼女は私ほど自分のことを好きじゃない mean?
Should I write 此方 or こちら?
Referring to a group of young people
Why is から and けど used just about everywhere?
と quotation particle: Omission and the で particle
Understanding ～の方を回っていく
What's the difference between 勝つ可能性 and 勝てる可能性？
How to say each other on this sentence
Any hints on how to translate the 'Nanny' in Totoro?
I have had this knife for over 60 years and I would like to know what these Kanji mean
シャンクス見参! why there is no が in that sentence?
Question About Kanji 𤼵, 發, and 発
Is the たん in this phrase the same as たく or たい?
When a word is both a な and の adjective?
How to express two of the same object, but different colors?
Difference between ほど and まで?
What final sentence particle can replace の and is used more commonly by men?
How do I read 間 in 食べている間に読みます?
Why are Japanese personal names pronounced the same but written differently?
When using ka, is it acceptable to eliminate the question mark when ending a sentence? [duplicate]
What is the word for afternoon? [closed]
The question marker か can only be used in polite questions right? Then why plain volitional can use it?
出来る{できる}: kun'yomi from Takoboto dictionary do not correspond
What's the difference between shokuji, ryouri and tabemono?
Can a Japanese word combine both on'yomi and kun'yomi characters?
Can ここ be used to present a list? Or is it only used for locations?
Is it possible to use more than one を in a sentence?
How can I ask about a person's specialty?
Meaning of 「X 一緒なら Y 一緒」
usage cases for 失礼します?
Trouble with a sentence
Do Japanese people introduce themselves with the last name used first?
What is the difference in meaning between 先生 and 教師？
Verb te form + くれて
Is fumufumu the same as soudesu?
What is the difference between ohanashi and oshiete
What's the difference between bejitarian and Saishokushugi?
Are there future tenses for Japanese verbs?
Can't find adjective in dictionary
To think kanji: 思う (おもう): シ (shi) versus (shitau)
Difference between します and できます？
Is okurigana always dropped when combining kanji?
What are the original names of the months in Japanese?
Is using the particle の at the end of a sentence considered feminine? [duplicate]
How to read kanji entry from Takoboto dictionary
Subtle differences between だれ and どなた?
Should I use the formal form (~ます) on the buttons of an app?
The meaning of　「全然わかる」
“Once upon a time” is to “The End” as “昔々” is to “______”?
What does 睨んでの指示 mean in this sentence?
Meaning of 青じろい in 風の又三郎
Why does some manga have dots above some of the words? [duplicate]
Why does Siri say 座布団１枚お願いします when I told him he is an interesting person?
知っているはずです is over complicated?
When asking for the bill - かんじょう or かいけい
Why is 1st floor written as ikkai いっかい?
Do story/literature need to be written politely?
Question about て- form verb ended with したる
What does じゅう mean In the word string :いちにちじゅう
Zaseki - Is that a Japanese word for “seat”
Is 遥か a special kind of adjective?
What does “de no idou” mean (in relation to flights)?
Can I skip これは and この in questions?
What is the difference between 行き先 and 旅行先?
How would one go about romanizing Aynu Itak?
What does the word 「へそのごみ」mean?
Is there any difference in Yoku (well) and Yoku (often)?
Translation of a sentence < 私はどれ程の人間…>
Meanings of びょうびょう
Grammatical explanation of 高めだし [duplicate]
Could someone tell me why is よう being used in this sentence?
I am writing an essay and I need to say, “From here, I would like to talk about my family” [closed]
Other uses of the particle に in お兄ちゃんには見つからない
“手が折れた” a natural way to express that the bone in a hand is broken?
What is the meaning of “Tabako-wa goenryo kudasai”
What is the difference between そして (soshite) and それから (sorekara)?
O-sumai-wa dochira-desu ka? vs Doko-ni sunde i-masu ka?
What are the grammatical rules for using filler words in Japanese(e.g. ええと, なんか, あの, and so on)?
How to say “This song is dedicated to our parents ” in Japanese? [closed]
Is patacake game called ぬすんではらいて
Usage of 用意 with different conjugations of 出来る
Understanding したことまで
Is There a Good Guide to Thinking in Japanese? [closed]
How is Y森飯ルド romanized?
What's the meaning and usage of ~マシだ
Can “悪夢” be used metaphorically?
What is the Japanese equivalent of “to pick up a girl” or “to hit on girls”?
Optimisation of vocabulary learning
What does 快便は快適な場所から生まれる mean?
Name of the food in the picture in Japanese and i can't identify it in English, either
How do the は and が function here?
Asking someone about their feeling towards experiences
Differences between は and が [duplicate]
What does this sentence mean? I can't understand this 求められようと
What does 否定を上回る mean?
という used right before comma: What does this mean, and how is it grammatically possible?
Ending Questions with だ
この薬によっては副作用が出ることがあります。 Clarification on によっては
What's is the meaning of 空しさが勝る?
Is the word for walk (sanpo) a verb?
If Japanese rice wine is called Sake then why is a liquor shop called a Saka-ya? [duplicate]
Multiple rounds of “continuing action” conjugations
前の方に立つ　versus　前に立つ
In romaji is it okosan or oko-san?
What is a TV news story called?
When to use 云う vs 言う?
私はあおい車はすきだ (は as contrast particle) vs 私はあおい車がすきだ
Meaning of たらたら歩く
verb and then na-adjective in sentence
Difference between volitional +と思う and volitional+ と思っている
Can 「持ち込んだ食品を飲食するのは禁止である。」be simplified for a notification board?
おく for “home country”?
What is the difference between 後ずさった and 後ずさりした
What is the difference between どうかな and どうなんだろう?
Why is と being used after the past tense in this sentence?
What are the different use cases for 家 vs. 自宅
Meaning of first “から” in “私からちゃんと話しとくから”
は and も particle opposition
ために vs こと when saying thank you
Understanding じゃから
Does word order change the meaning of a sentence?
How would you say “I changed my mind” in Japanese?
Mainen or Maitoshi used for every year?
Can we compare a noun with a verb in Japanese?
Definition of ワガハイ
What's the difference between Kokonotsu and kyū [duplicate]
How do you translate 笑っておく?
Difference between ”conditional” いい and 方がいい for providing recommendations
Is saying “私は社会人です” self-deprecating when you meet someone? Is it too vague?
Meaning of わりィ in this sentence
Meaning of えれぇ in this sentence
Meaning of でも in this sentence
How to translate “tonight” meaning “this evening” and “this night”?
Dialogue and politeness level in 風の又三郎
Kohsuke or Kosuke?
Does Kara have two meanings: since, because and from?
The meaning of なんだって here
Could someone help me translate this sentence? [closed]
How certain is たら？
What does this ごにゃごにゃ onomatopoeia mean?
Counters 本 and 話 within the context of anime production (need sakuga fans' insight)
What does 限り mean in this case?
What is the difference between 非親告罪 and 親告罪?
The difference between “Okiniiri no” and “Ichiban suki na”
What are the negating-suffixes in Japanese?
How can this phrase be translated?
Honorific and humble forms of suru verbs
what does「今夜が峠です」mean?
Confused about Hoka - 外 or 他
Difference between [休日]{きゅうじつ}, [休暇]{きゅうか} and 休{やす}み
What does かぎのあるヱ mean?
What does ここじゃ何だ means in this sentence?
なんなら【何なら】 = なんだったら【何だったら】 — Why/How do they mean what they mean?
Is 「かれがしょうねんですしかよ！」 grammatically correct? (「です」 before 「しか」?)
What is the meaning of それで in this sentence?
Getting your haircut in Japan
The politeness level of 辞書形(ある／する) in replacement of ます form
How would you say “x says hi” in Japanese?
What does ねこ部 mean?
Questions about phrase 「てもよいか」 and prefix 「うえ」
Are 少女 【しょうじょ】, 少女 【おとめ】, 小女 【しょうじょ】 and 乙女 【おとめ】 fully interchangeable?
What does ほれ mean?
I have a question about this form そうな/そうに
Onegaishimasu meanings, reply and when to use
kimasu, shimasu, imasu, and mashite, and deshita
Why ī is the only romaji that can be spelled as a double ii
When is 酒 pronounced sake and when is it pronuounced saka? And why? [duplicate]
Difference between おかあさん and ははおや
* “The Japanese language does not have words that function as adjectives in a syntactic sense”
Does this sentence with ことになる make sense?
Help With A Term In Katakana [closed]
Difference between the particles で and に？ [duplicate]
Hiragana long ō: spelling: おう versus おお? [duplicate]
Describing the degree/level/amount when using the -さ adjective ending
Is this a 略字 or 異体字 for 鼻? [closed]
What is the difference between Nigiyaka and Isogashii
Stroke order of cross in kana
Saying 'A little bit' instead of 「はい」 when asked 「日本語ですか？」 or similar?
Difference between the two “o” kana, and how to input them from romaji keyboard?
Difference between furigana and rubi
Stroke order of kana (not kanji) [closed]
How to say how long an object will last?
Why is the topic marker wa spelled ha? [duplicate]
Direct Object as Topic
Usage of 〜ても in the phrase「でも普通どおりにやっても面白くないから…」
I can't look anywhere (どこでも見ちゃだめです）？
Desu pronounced dess: what about other words? [duplicate]
～ているところ used with continuing verbs
Can mokuso literally mean close your eyes?
What does this fish market banner say?
締結 can this be translated as “engagement” in the context of mechanical clutch connection?
なく suffix and ていたら suffix
ひとつでもいいからだめな例が当てはまらないものさえほとんどない。— Deciphering — triple-negative?
Is there any difference between writing the katakana カ and the kanji 力? [duplicate]
Jumbichū or Junbichū for じゅんびちゅう, Konban wa or Komban wa for こんばんは？
How to grant permission for something in Japanese
Why is には used in this sentence instead of は? [duplicate]
What are the rules or instances in which a kana indication of の is dropped?
What does 結構好きです mean?
How to say “He went to bed without taking a shower, brushing his teeth, removing his contact lenses”?
Meaning of ことする in this sentence
Please help me understand 注がれた in this sentence and its conjugation
Words for computer: パソコン or コンピューター
What is the role of imperative form in this sentence?
Meaning and transitivity of ゴミ袋を手に立ち上がる
Why でも is used rather than も in this sentence?
Understanding kanji: kanji sound boundaries?
Can you use わかる instead of わかりました?
What does 「なにしてたん？」mean?
Meaning of phrase “Hai do do?”
Natural pauses when reading and speaking
それにしても日本人と変わりませんね - this sentence seems to make no sense
What is the specific difference between ば and たら conditionals?
The usage of ようだ with 何かを感じていた
Please help me understand more about intransitive verb and transitive verb
I don't understand this sentence 「自分は深く考えてなかった」
Particle で before もちきり
パンの作り方は何ですか。　OK?
「のは」 vs. 「には」 — as in 「嬉しいのは嬉しい」 「あるにはある」
Meaning of adjective + にする
には with plain form of verb
Understanding んじゃないでしょうか
Is there a generic word for a band/orchestra to “play” a song?
How to turn 蓬 into feminine given name?
Does a question using じゃないんじゃない exist?
What does ずっと前から mean?
How is ~ように used/linked in this sentence?
How to talk about the content of something?
Ways to greet someone irrespective of time and situation?
The meaning of し
What's きます in 持ってきます?
Can't find a verb to match this object
と言えば and は as a topic marker.
Please help me explain the kanji in [出]{だ}した and [出]{で}た
Please help me understand 思い巡らせた
Does the negative form of 〜てある exist (~てない)?
Meaning of 基本 X から Y メイン
「僕は任務を完成〔する／した〕かどうかを確認しました。」
What is the difference between しないで and しなくて? [duplicate]
What does また mean in 右、左、または、まっすぐ?
Meaning of きく耳をもたない
Can ところで be ambiguous (time vs. location)?
Is a sentence ending with 誰だ but without か a question?
Is there a I awlyas tghuhot slpeling was ipmorantt! example in Japanese?
How to pronounce the double consonant found in a word other than “nn”?
What does '…でしょう' mean?
What kind of grammar is it in 「恥を恥とも感じない」?
Is 言っちゃうんですね similar to よく言えますね in this example?
What is the accurate meaning of そうですね／そうですか?
Why 食べるなり rather than 食べたなり?
How to say “My manager wants me to introduce my older brother to his younger sister”?
What does って mean here?
How to understand this use of “sareru” in 「植物が成長を妨げられる」?
Replacing は with って
Usage of ば - is あれば…ください valid when the two subjects are the same?
Transitive meaning of the word “翻る”?
How should I translate this sentence?
Does the も particle in this sentence have the role as は?
I can't identify this kanji
相対テンス — ①ハワイへ行く時、帽子を買う。　②ハワイへ行く時、帽子を買った。　③ハワイへ行った時、帽子を買う。 ④ハワイへ行った時、帽子を買った。
Does the Japanese word for “love” have different connotations than it does in America?
What does いけません mean here?
What does 何か食べ物 mean?
What's the meaning of 心を壊す?
I am confused with Japanese tense
Help with understanding 「すそをはじく ように引っ張ると」 in sentence
～てない - ambiguity between ている and てある
Can anyone explain what ないっちゃないんだけど means in this sentence?
Can someone help me translate 見つけ出す in this sentence?
What are some other common dialect suffixes in Japan?
What is going on grammatically with “Xを嫌いになる”?
How do Japanese make language sound old (e. g. in historical dramas)?
What is the meaning of あまり in this dialogue?
How to use あげます、もらいます、and くれます
What is the correct translation of むにゅむにゅ/ムニュムニュ？
Is the で here connecting the two sentences or does it act as a context particle?
Is there a difference between 突然に and 突然のことで?
Is my translation correct?
What is the こと in sentences such as あなたのことが好きだ?
Difference between うら and 後ろ
どうしたの or どうしたのか？
What does する mean here?
What is the に particle in 他に doing
Can someone help me understand「どころの話ではない」in this sentence?
What does 研がず mean in cooking?
What is the meaning of 副助?
How to say that you saw something with a verb?
How to say “go wrong?”
What is the meaning of the phrase 「歯のたつ相手」?
How to speak about causing pain
How was 細 chosen in 亜細亜?
'見えはしないか' confused
What's the role of だけの in this sentence?
Relative clauses types and confusion
How can I ask if an English phrase is based on some Japanese phrase?
How do 旅路 and 旅 differ?
What does というのは mean right after a name?
A question concerning どなたかにでも
A translation of a song lyric which Seems off… What is the meaning of these to 2 sentences?
What kind of Japanese “dialect” is this?
What does 覆ってみせる mean?
Problem trying to adapt the sfx “グワラ” and “ドグワン”
Meaning of 冗談は顔だけにして下さいよ
Could I please get a hand with the grammar of this sentence
Usage of 私｛わたし｝ in Informal Situations
～おうと思う not allowed to be used as a question
Use of …と思います at beginning of presentation
I couldn't understand this structure 住んでいた時
Natural grammar for expressing someone is part of two groups
Help interpreting this sentence
What typeface or style is this font?
Why is けしゴム (eraser) half written in hiragana and half in katakana?
Can someone help me grasp the concept of ma (間)?
How/when is くる used to mean difficult/unpleasant?
ができます meaning on this sentence
Is “ゲル” or “ユルト” more commonly used and understood?
Should it be のにです or ですのに when stating an omitted 2nd sentence in polite sentence?
What is the rule in assigning kanji to a new word?
How to ask to whom an item belongs to
How to hope that something happened
What does 事だ mean in this context?
What is the difference between し and て-form in connecting verbs together?
Who is receiving what in this sentence with に対し?
Can 「と」be used with relative-clauses?
The word どういう in this dialogue
てもいい + a counter?
The meaning of the particle に in this sentence
Double/compound verbs?
What's the origin of 助 (saving)?
Why does こっそり not use the particle に? [duplicate]
Implication of 立ち去る versus 去る
Meaning of family names
When does omission of です constitute casual speech?
What does 記 mean in a 公正証書 (notarial document)?
What is the equivalent to old wives tales in Japanese
母 (haha) and お母さん (okāsan)
Emphasizing parts of sentence with 大抵 (たいてい, usually)
Older Jp had much fewer particles (助詞) ? — The modern “use ALL the particles” written style
In Japanese, what does the word “kimashita” mean and how does it work?
Multiple older siblings
The word for “to host someone”
How does one affirm an appointment offered with 「どうですか？」?
Why is this sentence like this なんと ～であることか and not like なんと ～でしょう?
Describing something as 'child like', and not 'a child'
Can't find this handwritten kanji/kana?
How to use 自動詞 to describe 名詞? [duplicate]
A question regarding Japanese sentences with present tense clauses but a past tense main verb [duplicate]
How do you say 'to add to'?
How to say where you buy something from
past / future — “抜けたら” — 「国境の長いトンネルを抜けると雪国であった」
What is the difference between ぐらい、ほど and だけ
What does 「諜づかいがオタナリ」 mean?
Yet another question about ～ている
How to say 'I just wanted to check…' formally?
What is the meaning of スタンドプレイ in this sentence?
Questions about particles 「など」 and 「の」
“This is a pen.” and “I am a boy.” — What are the equivalent sentences for Jp learners?
How do verbs interact with particles like は, が, も, を, etc [closed]
How many Kanjis do we learn in middle school?
How to tell people that you are a bit different in Japanese?
What does, or could, the phrase こんなヤツはこうだ！ mean?
Does 一度 have any meanings besides “once”?
Could somebody explain what this phrase means?
Why 上 is being used in these cases? How do I read it?
Understanding verb+ことくらいある
Confusion with word definition (出身)
Are Japanese counter words still being created?
Can you disambuguate a specific noun from a general noun with たち
What is the difference between 妙諦 and 原理?
Indirect question marked with かが
言っていた Conjugation
Why was つ originally used to mark consonant gemination? When was that?
In Akutagawa's writing, would 誰 have been pronounced たれ or だれ?
Rules for には usage
How Are Verbs Taught to Native Japanese Speakers?
“Playing instrument according to what's written in the magazine”
泳いでから and 食べてから
Polnareff & Kakyoin`s Speech to J.Geil, せるふ?
Can I get a grammatical breakdown of どうなってんの?
How To read this Calligraphy? [closed]
How to say “You are able to” or “You can do this”
When to use おなかすいた and when to use はらへった?
Why does the name of ハチ公 【こう】 include Katakana instead of Hiragana?
Should it be が大好き or を大好き? [duplicate]
Using て-form to indicate purpose
What does などそれでいい mean?
「X 程度なら、いっそ Y」 sentence meaning
Is た形 required when using 自動詞 as an adjective?
「が」vs「の」 with possessives
What's the difference between oyogemasu and oyogu koto ga dekimasu? [duplicate]
Difference between が and でも in this sentence
Causative form and willingness of the cast
Meaning of そんだけ in this context
What does this mean? 行動に理由ができる
What counter should be used for baked pastries? 焼菓子は何で数えますか?
Does Japanese have a past future tense?
What is the difference between 見る and 見える?
How to express “yes” casually in Japanese
Did I correctly express what I ate for dinner?
Has anyone seen this word: 愛想薄い, and does anyone know what it means?
Math in Japanese
は topic particle. What does it mean?
（花よりもなほ) What does もなほ mean here?
What is the difference between 何 and どれ?
Can 昭和 mean “old-fashioned”?
Could you help me translate this sentence? < 今更、咎められることなんて恐ろしくもない。>
What is the difference between アジア and 大陸?
What is the difference between アジア and 大陸?
「わけもないというふうで」What is the nuance being conveyed in this context?
What's the difference between なさい and てください / でください?
What does 斜めに流すこと mean?
etymology of 「が」 — Are 「が」 and 「けれども」 (& variants) always interchangeable grammatically?
What is the difference between ちゃいろ and ちゃいろい [duplicate]
The meaning of “yoi” in martial arts
Questions about words 「きいてはいた」, 「見て見たい」, 「ってえ」and 「つらあ」
How to cut and understand long Japanese noun sentence
The song 「雪が降る」 by アダモ goes --> ♪♪ 雪は降る あなたは来ない … ♪♪
Why do textbooks teach が as “but” when けど is more common?
Use は or が with ある when the phrase doesn't explicit the place
What does ことが mean here?
What does 居酒屋 mean in Japanese?
Help to choose best option that fit in paragraph
Does ので have the same meaning as のに in this sentence?
meaning of ここに来て
How to say “Be silent (or quiet), vexatious woman!”? [closed]
What does this mean in context? [幾本も幾本も]
Correct pronunciation of “sukiyaki”?
Is ドットマトリクス valid Japanese?
「楽しいでした？」- clarifications about this conjugation
What does 「かかと」 mean?
What's the difference between 番 and 番号?
Is な used for emphasis or negative imperative in this sentence?
Understanding ってだけで in this sentence
Synonyms for あっち行け
納得 and 一良好な usage in this sentence
When is 日本語、お上手です used?
Is またね OK even if I don't literally expect to see them again?
Ink label kanji?
Is my understanding of やっちまった correct?
What does ケルヒャー mean?
What does 「歴史を刻め」 even mean?
How to know who is the subject and obejct in sentence when there are two particle は and が
Usage of ～じゃん (～じゃない)
What is the meaning of doreka, doremo, and doredemo which is taken from dore?
Is it okay to switch from kanji to hiragana in a sentence? [duplicate]
How to understand japanese sentence step by step
What does「勝負ありだ」mean?
What does 空亡風 mean?
How to express that “something is not right” with a friendship
Is it grammatically correct to say 難しいことも、諦めたい時もあります?
What is the difference between 前にある vs 手前にある?
“Now that [a certain criterion] is in place” in Japanese
もはや used with しか
what does noun +とする mean?
What's a good translation of “きれいごと”?
What is the meaning of ダッサ？
Kanji or kana for いってきます?
How would you interpret and make a full sentence of 漂{ただよ}う 僕{ぼく}達{たち} in English?
What does the word 「こったい」mean?
Which alphabet should I use when combining a Japanese word with an English word?
Help to know where to cut a japanese sentence in translation
How do adjectives work in relative clauses?
I am confused about nominalisation and the usage of の、こと、物 after verbs and adjectives. Can someone help me?
te form + infinitive +noun
What is the difference between ものですから and just ですから?
Using けいご to talk about a third party
Is 漢画 the most suitable translation of Chinese style paintings?
Difference between 送信【そうしん】 and 通信【つうしん】
Sentences can be joined using te-form. What about in plain form?
What does the word 「やそこら」mean?
What does て-form used on its own mean?
What is the meaning of が as a sentence-ending particle here?
I need some help with いざゆけ七変化
what does てはいる in this sentence mean?
does 'yutori' have kanji?
でください conjugation
Multiple older siblings
About japanese special expressions
How to say 'Can I continue studying Japanese?'
Is the の in this question seeking an explanation or changing the verb into a noun-like?
How was a Japanese 'common/standard language' chosen?
What does it mean to end a question with 「だけでは？」
Under what Japanese honorific should manga/anime fans address manga-ka/anime directors?
What is the Japanese word for “counter” and how do I ask questions with it?
Difference between 景色 and 見晴らし
Is 風邪 more than common cold?
Why is いきなり needed in this sentence with 走り出す?
Are there any differences between 申込/申し込み and 応募?
2 verbs link together ?
What exactly is なんだと?
Are there any words in Japanese with heavily disputed pronunciation?
Grammar and aspect of 「コーヒー飲んでき！」
Difference between 贖う【あがなう】 and 償う【つぐなう】
に　まで differences in usage with person or things
Can you modify nouns with polite verbs in the relative clause?
Expressing “live somewhere in summer and live somewhere in winter”: Particle usage
「何かあるごとに」Not quite sure what it means or how to translate
What part-of-speech is ゲゲゲ in ゲゲゲの鬼太郎?
What is 一個 in Japanese used in context of cooking?
How do I convert ちょうしょく to rōmaji with the modified Hepburn system?
Is きっさてん one or two words in romaji?
Question on noun modification
Pronouncing kanji of day of the week
Why de is used in second sentence? [duplicate]
Some troubles with きかせていただきたい
What is this character saying? [Video/Listening]
Why 来ています rather than 来ました [duplicate]
What are the right shapes of kana?
Is it okay to use お願いします when asking your teacher for help?
Difference between 故障中 and だめです
Is this grammar correct? (span of time)
How do I say there are (number) main points?
Why is 悪夢 read as ゆめ？
How to pronounce だいがくせい
Helping understand ukemi sentence
Special Katsudon table with a light?
Using を particle with ただ
Usage of 付加的な意味 in a sentence
How would I write the name Zuko in Japanese
Expressing “show me how to ~”
What type of verb conjugation is this 巻き込まれてしまた
Can someone help with this sentence involving double denial?
why たい , たくない , ながら, etc arent considered verbal tenses?
How to understand 叶う here?
The difference between my translation and native Japanese`s translation
What is the intended meaning of this sentence? 「これはまさに自虐ネタであるそうだ。」 w
Translation question - how to understand a phrase
How is 向 pronounced in 男性向同人?
あのせんせいって: verb implied?
Print with Admiral Matthew Perry flanked by officers
How to use ちょうさします？
Multiple verbs in a sentence ending with ている
Why are counters necessary to describe the quantity of objects?
How to say that a word sounds impolite
Is 大丈夫 possibly phonetic? [duplicate]
Meaning of ってのも/というのも
Does anyone know what ちゃる means?
から and まで be used for age?
Meaning of 夕陽の中を
What does 石ころネタ mean?
What's the traditional song “don't be mean to your daughter in law…”
How do you (not using keigo) thank someone for giving you permission to do something?
What does 「中」 mean in 「そう危険なものではなかった中、彼の姿は。。。」
Did I say “I shall bring glory to God in all that I do.” right?
Meaning of 寝てない
How to differentiate meaning of words
What does そうだった means
What is the most commonly used way to apologize in Japanese?
さえ vs でさえ ｜ この整理は正しいですか。(English available)
What does 俺のせいとも思われなかった mean here?
Is there any Japanese language reason why Google Maps hyphenates some names and not others?
Help to understand what words fit in the sentence
Can someone help with this sentence
Help to choose answer that fit paragraph context
Confusing 受け身 questions
本 pronunciation
くらい and ほど — Where do they come from?
て form and adverbial meaning
Ai oboete imasu ka, what does “imasu” add here?
Why in “Fukkatsu no F” the words order are inverted? [duplicate]
Japanese 受け身 and sentences
Using i-adjective color words
Help to understand japanese sentence [closed]
What does ように mean here?
A little help with the passive form
Can the particle “no” sometimes be omitted?
かれはまどをあけますか — How to convert it to “Why did he open the window?”
Long & complicated verb forms? ( Vstem-causitive-passive-aspect-desiderative-NEG-tense ) 行かせられ続け得たくなかった　(?)
Difference between conjugated and te-form listed verbs? 「置いて行かないで下さい」
How does the passive form work here?
Pronouncing the ひ sound correctly
using の with と,で, から, まで
What does “果布” mean?
Kanji that don't use their specified readings
How to confirm plans?
How to write credit in Japanese
ベジータが家族旅行! is 旅行 here a verb or a noun?
What is the message of the song Aoi Shiori?
can の as “'s” be used with verbs?
How did 面白い end up meaning “Interesting”?
か connecting independent clauses　and ようだと
かれはまどをあけますか — How to convert it to “Why did he open the window?”
What does the word 「になあ」mean?
Omitting half of a letter in Japanese
Giving a reason for asking for a letter of recommendation
What's the rule for expressing “I don't want to”
How to say “thank you for taking the time to read my email” in formal business Japanese [closed]
「とおり」と「ように」の違いは何ですか
ほど clarification in this sentence
Meaning of や in this sentence
Use of particle や with も
Please help me understand 言えば
Can someone explain this verb conjugation?
How to translate 入っていいのかな?
What is the meaning of dots and dashes in kunyomi readings?
What is 'called' in Japanese?
What are the grammatically valid sentence structures for Japanese? [closed]
Correct way to use ばかりか・ばかりでなく
Can someone explain how to use the passive here
Expressing “for/in exchange for”
Translation of 放学
「か」 or 「と」 as a subordinate clause?
What is japanese? [closed]
Meaning of これでおしまいに？ in this context
The meaning of 取らせて in this sentence
How to read: the “~” (tilde) in “3~4 行”
What dialect are these numbers from?
What does と mean in 「ここにおいで」と?
Different ways of saying “impossible” - -得ない vs. -eない
Why does 「電話は切れた」 sound more adversarial than 「電話が切れた」?
そつなく meaning? Idiom or structure?
How to form a comparative adjective?
Are 桃色 and ピンク the same color or are they slightly different colors?
Difference between もっとも and 一番
て-form for a cause/reason
How to say “I knew that Kanji, but not that reading”
How to differentiate between んい and に in romaji?
Use of consecutive particle の
Can't find the meaning of 「パー」
What is this verb form? 鳴きやんだら
Prologue is プロローグ or 序章?
Is 私は, 明日街に歩く correct?
Difference between あく and ひらく [duplicate]
Should I use “馬乳酒”, “クミス”, or “アイラグ” for fermented mare's milk?
What is the purpose of は here?
Misplaced(?) に in たった4週間の間に毎日3Lの水を飲み続けた女性の変化がヤバすぎ！
Using 交番 as a する-verb
“to wa” Particle? とは?
Can someone explain the させる in this case?
Understanding っていうのも
“access into the sea” in Japanese
Use of とは when there doesn't seem to be comparison
What does the word 「まかせとき」mean?
What is the role of あるいて?
Ai to iu namae no hoshi de (愛という名前の星で)
What does the らせ in this sentence?
What does the phrase 「まってちゃぶだい」 mean?
Pronunciation of こんばんは? [duplicate]
Why is there no rendaku occurring in the word ふかふか?
Would it be appropriate to use 棋士 to describe players of games other than Shogi?
What does the word 「ぶっぱたく」 mean?
Catch one's breath
volitional + nimo 作ろう＋にも?
Help translating めいてある [closed]
Is ～めぇし a possible typo?
Using に in place of が
Particles after time expressions like “三週間”
Why do some Japanese people write parts of their name in hiragana?
Help understand a sentence
Imperative form is rude…?
Which particle should I use?
Meaning/significance of ほおに手をやる
What do the shapes △ ◯ ╳ ◻ mean in Japanese? And are there variations in meaning, depending on whether or not the shape is filled?
児童vs子供, when to use each of them?
Why do people say 'Iru?' alone?
Difference between ろ and なさい?
のになあ and wish/hope
Saying or Idiom for 'trying to force a square through a circle'
If a girl tells you “きらいじゃない” what does that really mean
What does いう mean in this sentence
The many ways to say “and” in Japanese
The “cultural” meaning of 人間 (ningen)?
Reading of 七時: why しちじ and not ななじ [duplicate]
What is the meaning of なめた口?
How do you use Sokkuri?
希望 expressing verbs
Meaning of に in this sentence
Transforming (conjugating) verbs
Some people say X, some people say Y
Metaphorical equivalent of Timbuktu or Outer Mongolia
What is the correct pronunciation of 精撰寒晒?
How to say: “Glow-in-the-dark”?
How strictly does calligraphy typically abide by stroke rules?
The meaning of を in あなたは何をしていますか?
は and が usage in a weird case
How to say “Do you still study in ABC university” in Japanese? [closed]
そんな used in disbelief
Double negative in sentence “一人くらいは来てくれるんじゃないかな…”
で言うsyntax in context
Usage differences between てしまう and ちゃう
Usage/Meaning: おいたん
Why is Beach ビーチ and not ビーチュ, why is Cake ケーキ and not ケーク?
「チェ」 「ちぇ」 外来語のみ ? — How old is the interjection 「ちぇっ!」 ? ??
Why does ちょうし translate to “choushi”?
Who is waiting for whom?
「だって出てない」 What does it mean here?
Official radical names (部首{ぶしゅ}名称{めいしょう}) vs radical nicknames (部首{ぶしゅ}通称{つうしょう})
でも、週明けすぐっていうのもね clarification
Correct phrase for “I'm just browsing” in a store
Why is the passive form verb 「おられる」used in this sentence?
Question about a sentence including the「す」with question mark at the end of a sentence
から～から for a range of activities
How did わし etc. become stereotypical “old people” pronouns
What does “オレ” in Pokemon Opening song mean?
「定規」と「物差し」の違いは何ですか
Are 新しい and 新たに etymologically related?
How to use 十分. Differences from ずいぶん、けっこう
Difference between この and その
ずつ meaning clarification
What's the meaning of “きわきわ”?
Nakattan — what does n mean?
how to parse すごい綺麗 (連続の形容詞と形容動詞の活用について)
Are you allowed to use と in front of が?
Can I use こと or の to say “Everyone said that ～”?
Understanding a colloquial sentence and meaning of やっぱ
Why are points used where furigana would be normally?
大変 different meanings
Nuance of 天下 and 地上 in the sense of the entire world
The correct usage of ～と決める, ～に決める, and ～を決める
“経験になる” difference with “経験ということになる”?
Difference between たくさん and いっぱい? [duplicate]
Can someone give me a thorough explanation on なって?
Can you explain ともかく in this case?
いい at the beginning of a sentence
Difference between めっちゃくちゃ and めちゃくちゃ
“One time wonder”
Can we use either じゃない or ではない in addition to でない for ～ないことには?
Are there rules for when pronouns in Japanese can be omitted?
Compound sentence and politeness
What does もうやめてください mean?
にあった instead of であった
Which of these grammar patterns is more correct?
The meaning of しないでもなかった
The meaning of しないでもなかった
紹介してもいいんですけれどもね｡
What is the difference between chan and san and sempai?
when no ka question mark is used instead of ka?
Ways to say 'You needn't apologize'
Is there a reason why some questions have question marks and other don't?
Contraction of past form of 失う？ [closed]
Meaning of なかなか顔の皮分厚い
ですが vs が， what are the differences between them?
What does ってことか？ mean?
What does ビクビクのヌルヌルで mean?
Difference between まあ and さあ
ちょっとぐらい　/　ちょっとくらい　meaning
Can someone explain the use of は in this sentence?
How to parse this sentence into smaller bits?
Is there a way to know what meaning the も particle has?
Questions about 絵本 by 林芙美子
What does 今はそれだけじゃなかった mean here?
「う」 for future tense
Translation of 面倒 as referring to a person
Does 「剣は 鋭 気は円」 make sense?
ending na instead of ne, when to use it?
Use of “yori” in this sentence
Can someone explain how になって works?
Difference between この and こんな
Did I read 金田 correctly?
How to break down 「北航路」?
Help understanding these 2 sentences
人 as a suffix. General rule for a reading? [duplicate]
I have questions about the usage of でもある and さっそく in this context
What is the Japanese analogue of word “with”?
Use and meaning of the word [綻]{ほころ}ばす
Is it a right interpretation of the line of this Japanese song?
What does ほど mean in these sentences? Also I would like translations for them
What does “きゅうにゅう” means? [closed]
Readings of「乗んなかった」 and 「また来なね」
What search term(s) should I use when looking for a pronunciation guide of ancient kanji?
Need help translating a sentence - あるひ?
Pronunciation of 空室
How to say “Borrowing something from someone and not returning it by exploiting unawareness of its owner is the same as thieving. ”?
Correct use of かけて
“fancy meeting you here”
Translation of はじめとする
Differences among -たら、なら、-んだったら、-えば, etc
To what extent, if any, was meifumadō an element of Japanese Buddhism or culture?
How to say よろしくお願いします in English?
Help with understanding this sentence
Words for “stomach” (お腹、胃袋、etc.)
Etymology of いい reading of 飯
-たん (-tan) suffix (honorific) meaning?
と prefixing a verb?
How do I ask someone to limit the scope of their questions? [closed]
～際に　and ～に際して grammar
How to say “better+verb”
what is the proper way to use 一冊? [duplicate]
Meaning of 自分でもわかってはいるんだが
アイランド or 島 when translating an island name from English?
What does いられるかっ mean in this sentence?
What does いないか mean in this sentence?
Why does Unicode have code points for MANSYON, APAATO and such?
Meaning of 民度低い
What's the difference between それならいい and それならいいんですが [duplicate]
Verbs conjugated with しましょう ending
Why is “boyfriend” transliterated as 「ボーイフレンド 」 instead of 「ボイフレンド」?
What are the nuances of the verb “to find out”?
Meaning of それは構わないんだけどね
What are the differences between 田{た}, 水田{すいでん}, and 田圃{たんぼ}?
Can you help completing this sentence?
Why were Chinese readings imported along with kanji?
Meaning of 華の独身
origin of western names for eating utensils
Can て be a particle?
How to use 紹介される?
What does 「そうもいかなくて」 mean in this sentence?
Long vowel followed by っ
Understanding the usage of もう with present tense verbs
こちら (kochira) or これ (kore)?
Why use kana rather than kanji (and vice versa)
The meaning of 殺しても殺したりねぇ
What does なんだろうけどな mean here?
「楽々と」の「と」: What does と do here?
Kanji with long あー sound
pronunciation of 一昨年
Difference between 大半 and 多数派
アメッシュ etymology
How to distinguish between different types of katakana words?
How do you say “once every x days/weeks/etc”?
Nuances in the word “smile”
Is there a list of “pieces” all the kanjis are made of?
General rule for writing simple kanji as hiragana in newspaper articles sometimes?
Weird behavior ga particle
Is this book extract good grammar?
Is this sentence in the future?
Different Ways of Saying “Can you speak Japanese?”
usage of particle と in this situation
ワン、ツー、さん、し、 Why and how common is it?
What is the meaning of 「ちょいとまった」?
What does こっちも mean here?
How are alveolar stops in Japanese articulated?
Nuance of マスター vs. ご主人 when referring to a cafe owner
Correct grammar for “snow fox”?
What is the correct grammar for “neither x nor y”?
How to say “to do one's hair”?
What word can I use for 'they', when referring to a mixed gender group?
Is “正午” precisely 12:00-pm? Does it feel different than saying “昼十二時”?
Translation adverbs
How do you translate “しか” correctly?
How to make this sentence correct?
rationale of するんじゃない as informal negative imperative
Meaning of かな for asking questions
を particle usage
Is “速読” somewhat a different reading technique, or is it just “reading really fast”?
Can 寂しい be used to describe an insufficiency?
meaning of 一人じゃ [duplicate]
Is putting だ before よor ね considered incorrect?
What does 包みこまれる (“tsutsumikomareru”) mean in the Spitz song “愛のことば” (“Ai no kotoba”)?
How to make a new sentence from 「母が私に卵を食べさせた。」where 卵 must be the subject?
In what context does it sound natural to say / write “多忙”?
Usage of 如き, 如し, 如く
Usage of word かんじ (not 漢字, but same pronunciation)
Why this is written using past form?
If I want to learn to speak Japanese, is it vital I learn to write/read it too or can I just learn to speak it? [closed]
When can or should I substitute other particles with 「の」 during nominalization?
The radical “貝” and its relation to economic characters such as “貨” “資” etc
Please help me master particles [closed]
Translation Help? 「産声を上げた」
決着 (keri or kecchaku)
What does the の do in 向かっているのは特別棟?
What is the difference between 「本物」 and 「本当」?
Grammar of nounの多さに
ですかorですが？which one is correct?
What does か分の mean in 「何ヶ月か分のわたしが床に落っこちたのを見た」?
Usage of Verb て-form あります [duplicate]
What is the meaning of ～んです/～のだ/etc?
Meaning of 娘が心配しちゃいますので
Why are some loanwords written in kanji in certain manga?
I don't get this specific usage of なんか [duplicate]
For 知る what is the difference between the simple present (知る) and 知っている forms?
Reading of 入る - 「はいる」 vs 「いる」
What does MUNU ムヌ mean please as in the phrase below [closed]
How to understand this sentence with 次第 and 締め切らす
つ at the end of a number
Can I use a Chinese newspaper to learn kanji radicals and maybe some kanji?
は、には、に。。。what is the difference between them?
How to say “spoil”
How would you ask 'What would you like me to call you?'
Different usage of の
How to say “Pretty women are not necessarily attractive, let alone ugly women”?
Did I determine the pronunciation of 人口 correctly?
Hiragana: How does dakuten affect chi and tsu? [duplicate]
Questions about counters
Is there a particular name for the rows and columns of the hiragana/katakana charts?
Usage of word white in context and alone
Difference between かわいいのは私です and かわいいの私です?
ことか to place strong emphasis on something?
What are the Japanese words for MMA terminology?
Comparision between 仁義 and 正義
What is a respectful way to say “homosexual (man)”?
Nuance questions about the literal translation of a sentence
Ways to say 'rather than'
How you would say combination in Japanese?
Describing bad Chess moves in Japanese
Should 「だ」 be used or not?
Expressing 'likeness' and using ku Verbs in the past tense
Difference between 「彷徨う」 and 「彷徨える」、「狂う」 and 「狂える」 etc
What does the word 「きりねえ」mean in this sentence?
Could I use 僕 to refer to myself?
What kind of Japanese is used for a nonfiction book translation?
How does one say 'my compliments to the chef'?
How to ask someone if they would like us to do something?
Meaning of 迷いを断ち切るかのように
という usage in relative clauses
Is “ランタイム時” (runtime-time) acceptable?
誰か being used as topic, but without topic particle
godan verbs ending in nu besides shinu [duplicate]
State of being and the word こと
How to say 'only' when there is only one of something
Potential form vs Intransitive Verbs
Japanese equivalent of “I identify as X”
What does the word 「だまっとれ」mean?
Why を can't be used with existence verbs?
Using 音読み to write foreign names
あちし。。。Real or fiction
Large qualifiers before nouns or unusual sentence orders?
Clarifying meaning of 満系
What does “石井ん家” (abbreviation) mean?
〇〇さん「は・が」いらっしゃいますか？
When might someone say おしたいしておりました?
What is 社会運動標榜?
meaning of 蓮も好きなんだから
The meaning of 吐く in a scene from 火花
what does “たすかれます” mean and use for？
さらわる - what form is this?
What is お in お元気ですか?
What role does と play in this sentence?
Can the last い in かわいい be dropped?
それもまた 人生, what does it mean literally?
What does どうにも穏やかではなさそうだが mean
What does the word 「せん」 mean in this sentence?
What does かこっかな mean? [closed]
How to represent percentage and ratio in Japanese?
What does the word 「やったる」mean?
Relative clause ending with a noun should be followed by の or である? What is the difference?
Is it okay if we pronounce a word with an 'r' sound in English 'R' instead of the Japanese 'R', which is somewhere in between 'L' and 'R'?
What is the meaning and reading of 小奴?
Function of と言う
when do I have to use naru hodo, and when do I have to use wakarimashita?
How to translate a sentence that has no particles
Modifying nouns (how to know if a modified noun is the object or the subject?)
Japanese Names for Logical Fallacies?
We are now living in the era of smartphone in which uneducated lazy people look busy and important, how to say it in Japanese?
How to modify nouns which are present affirmative?
What does らいたい mean here?
The meaning of ～がいい
Why ば and ならない in 解決していかねばならない?
Help with おうおういっちょ前におったてて because I can't understand!
How to express “and/also” in this context?
最中に and うちに differences
How can 関係 be used when there is only one subject?
Connection between みっか/むいか and よっか/ようか
Kanji reading of a name
What does んだけど mean here?
すごく to describe a person?
How to pronounce the English alphabet? (A, B, C, …)
Difference between “私達” and “われわれ” when used as possessive pronouns?
Vて+しまう？ 他の使い方がある？
How do I write Akane in Japanese? [closed]
“On a more serious note” equivalent expression in Japanese
Can I replace X with an adjective in 「ＸはＹです」?
の or は, which particle would be a better choice in this sentence?
ぶん after a standard form verb vs ほど or くらい
ば晴れて usage and meaning
Sei Sei Sei chant
による for highlighting differences
How to say “I don't want to take the risk of not being repaid by you”?
The colour of 青黄色い
Closed due to misunderstanding | How should I translate the sentence with ~のみ [closed]
Meaning of: やりまくり
What does と and なり mean in this sentence? [closed]
Many subject and topic particles in the same sentence
Difference between について and につき
“二つ目のお話しのtheme” vs. “二つのお話しのtheme” nuance difference?
のに and には difference
Origin of ずんぐり（むっくり）
2 different ways to describe consecutive actions
what nuance does ことがありますか add in this sentence?
Natural way to talk about food served in a restaurant
Is there a convention to always place yourself last in a list of people?
The tense of punctual verbs as noun modifiers
Is Japanese em dash equal to Latin em dash?
On the interchangeability of ~ように and ~ために
Question about i-adjective without 「い」followed by 「の」
A good and polite way to ask “How long have you been playing drums?”
What makes 「どこからきた？」 rude?
Is おくれ interchangeable of くれ?
Why is there の between 考えて and こと in this sentence?
equivalence between くれる and もらう
For natives, is 署名 beginning to supersede 判子 with regard to signing official documents? [closed]
Meaning of ついて when issued as a command?
What's the difference between 落す and 落とす?
purpose of の in 人の嫌がることをするな [duplicate]
形容詞 that end in ～しい but were not シク活用 in 古文
Why did they use で here?
What is さらさら on packaging?
-んだ casual form
What is the grammar behind 見よ? [duplicate]
How to express “Again?”
Using -ndesu correctly?
What are these types of 当て字?
should I use が or は for the sentence 私が木は好きです。and is that sentence even correct?
What is the difference between だろう and でしょう?
japanese long sentences
How to reconcile stroke order with font variation on 衷?
Problems with translation
Why does 「やきもち」 mean to be jealous?
Does the average native Japanese reader know how to pronounce a majority of Kanji found in books?
use of に or で for 寄ってください as a location particle
Clarification of　半日　in this sentence
“The eye (crust ?) laughs at the booger”?
What is the のって supposed to mean here?
What do the words 「ことに」, at the end of a sentence, and 「を巡り」mean?
What Does the “Volitional” Really Mean?
Why is the Kanji 「驍」read 「たける」?
「ご確認なさってください」って変？
Use of particles in counter grammar and a confusing sentence
ことにする with causative
『僕だけがいない街』Is it grammatically correct?
Is 君しかこれを知らなくなかった the same as 君だけこれを知らなかった?
Why say “〜、皆には出来る。” instead of “ 〜、皆は出来る。” in this context?
How is という used in 「男の子の顔は父親より母親ににるという話を聞いた」?
Grammar and meaning of 凝りに凝って出された
ふたりで一人前で meaning
how to write 'Ashutosh' in japanese language?
Explaining the phrase 目がくっきり
「五輪に向けて」か「五輪に向かって」か。。。
How to represent the word “something”?
Conventions used to comprehend graphs, charts, etc
How to use ～先生 properly with co-workers?
What is this wood doll thing with a poem on it?
Use of も with counter
What is the difference between “verb-stem + verb” and “verb-て form + verb”?
What is the equivalent Japanese term for “Anthropomorphize/Anthropomorphic”
Question about 「の多く」
Despite reading articles online I'm still confused on sentence format using は or の
What is a natual expression for “vast collection”?
Is this 8px height font understandable for japanese knowing people?
「横断する」と「横切る」の違い
Applying ～すればするほど (and its variants) to various part of speech
Can an English video game be translated into Japanese without kanji?
Does the phrase 恐竜ガール make sense?
Is 殷富 never used Kanji?
The usage of 向き合う in a romantic context, as well as sports
Can I use とても　with すぎる?
When stating a non-Japanese name, should the surname come first?
Difference between さえ、でさえ
How did 本 come to mean book?
Words for observatory tower such as Tokyo Sky Tree, Umeda Sky Building, etc
Difference between で and によって
On 重んじる and 重んずる
Would まで work here?
Can I use やめた instead of やめる in this sentence?
In academic Japanese, should old places be written with 新字体 or 旧字体?
With 規則 and 規定, where do you draw the line?
Who is considering marriage here?
間 & ながら, どんなに ~ても & いくら ~ても, 最中
Difference between 切る、切り刻む、刻む
Is the word Canon キヤノン (camera brand) related with キャメラ?
Is Japanese that primitive? [closed]
Phrasing queries about doko
Meaning of どく in sentence
Help parsing this sentence
“Joinery” as a place name in Japanese?
AやBとか, AとかBとか, AやB, AとかB
背中を押す Phrase Meaning
When would you use 敬語 in its plain forms?
What is the difference between formal and polite verb forms?
How to say please could I have my money back?
Difference between 一番鎚 and 親方 referring to a blacksmith in a fantasy novel
“Reductio ad absurdum”: Any easy way to express this concept in Japanese?
Undertsanding the different かける
help with AをBに回せる and 騎
How would saying “時には、” instead of “時に、” change to meaning of this paragraph?
meaning in context of 矛先 and 逃げ切る
Using は(wa) or が(ga)
Does “te-form” of a verb always include て/で? Why?
Etymology of お負け
When to use である vs であります?
Usage of the term 風吹き
Can 向こうに in 向こうに大きなビルが見える also be interpreted as a relative clause?
Japanese 使役｛しえき} and 使役{しえき}受身{うけみ} grammar
Parsing a fictional place-name
Sentence ending particle よ
Why the くれる verb is gone in the させるform?
what is the meaning of 悪ぃ
Trouble understanding a phrase from a novel
Hello, there is a certain phrase that I've been trying to translate but because of a few expressions I am stuck (this is a multi-part question)
Are パート and アルバイト different?
Why is kazoku/family used twice in this sentence?
Is “役立つ” a recent lexicalization of “役に立つ”? Is it less formal?
How to translate the construction “noun + で”
Using だった to introduce a subject
japanese ambiguous sentences [closed]
What is the difference between 捕まえられた and 捕まった?
Meaning of this definition of 落雷?
Japanese automatic subjects (Omitting pronouns)
「の」usage in「１時間前の午前８時半」
How to say “I have been ～ for X months”
What is this odd character?
~たい次第 expression meaning
What is the meaning of ～てきた in the following sentence?
Meaning of [あまりこない] and [全くこない] in the following context
How do you say “hard to overlook”?
What does “sensitive” or “sens” mean?
when to use 講座/ チュートリアル / 学習用
Confusing use of plain copula （だ should be だった?）
What does かける mean in 人類の宇宙にかける夢はとどまるところを知らない?
How do I say “Who is the tallest in your family?”
How to say “General Statement”
Why is this で wrong, and を preferable? 「信号を左です」
Why does this mean they'll return 90% of the money, not 10%?
What's the correct way to write eggplant?
名乗る used as a transitive verb
Help with identification and translation [closed]
たらしめる? ex: “素晴らしいfontを素晴らしいものたらしめているのは何かについて学んだ。”
when to use formal and informal conjugations?
Aratanaru and atarashii usage
What is the difference between “ato ichinen” and “ichinen go”?
Why “absent from school” is “gakkou wo yasumu” when yasumu is intransitive verb?
Difference between ワクチン and 予防接種
Difference between「湿る」「濡れる」
Nuances of 老いる and 老ける
When to use nani and when to use nanda?
Is this sentence correct? courtesy/honorific use of the passive
Etymology of 米国 (べいこく)
“Put down the sword” in “The Last Samurai” movie
Different ways to say even
Is this a correct usage of なら
Meaning of phrase 手に実際穿った
plain form+ んでもいい
これ・それ・あれ when referring to products in a store
Is there a (historical) connection between this オツ construct and Pig Latin?
How do you spell half demon (like Inuyasha) han'yo, hanyo or hanyou?
Difference between 折る and 折れる
Is 預けがね a possible reading of 預け金? 預けがね vs 預けきん meanings?
Why small version of katakana ヵ is used in a word 二ヵ国語
Meaning of には in this sentence.
くれて in this sentence
How to say to “persuade into doing something”?
Ask Japanese complicated passage [closed]
Abbreviating sets of compounds with leading characters in common
Similar 音・訓読み: Coincidence, or something more?
よう言うよう言う meaning
君の元へ飛んでゆけ - imperative or optative?
What's is the difference between these two forms?
What is the most “comprehensive” kanji dictionary?
Adjective + 出す？
From a linguistic point of view - can the order of steps in 手順 be changed?
Can someone please help me translate this line from a manga I'm reading?
Help interpret 遅れてもよければ、大丈夫だ in a sentence
Translation of 覚えちゃうくらいの距離で
Two から in the same sentence
How rude is it to speak to a Japanese stranger informally instead of using the polite form?
涯 in a sentence
に越したことはない Wondering about the に
Translation of the word “sub-debtor”
“Supposedly” in Japanese
What does あの子、あんなんだしさ mean?
Questions about multiple particles 「は」and 「を」and interpunct in this sentence
数 as used in math - pronounced かず or すう?
Understanding どの顔さげて
戦前はどうやってしりとりをしていたのですか？
Using「仇」instead of 「敵」
What's the exact meaning of ～するところ?
What is the difference between 怯える, 恐れる, and 怖がる?
Adjectives, onyomi/kunyomi
Natural expression for “Parking space” in Japanese
Can ～て初めて grammar be used with negative verbs?
Questions about double particles 「は」in a same sentence and using comma
“Yale並みに学費の高い大学”. Is “並みに” a suffix? “の” between “並みに” / “学費” is optional?
精一杯 usage in this sentence
Confirmation regarding Japanese colors i-adjective
What is the subject of a sentence like 文字を紙に書いてある?
Expressing a doubt between multiple items in an enumeration
How to parse たすけにいって
けど in the end of sentence
Vague subject of sentence
How can I express a “person has a desire to do something”?
How would you say “the ___ family”?
How does the までに work in ご参考までに
When I ask a simple question should I ask it in negative form?
Can someone verify the reasons I give for using a “wa” and “ga” in this sentence?
What does と言ってしまった　mean?
一人の彼女 versus 彼女の一人
Use of する and しまう
What is the tiny difference between the two sentences?
Relation between 大学, 学校 and 大学校
What does the word 性故か mean?
Is 生まれてくる an active thing, and how to translate it?
How to express love in japanese?
How to say “leave a gap”?
Do Japanese people tend to be vague even when talking about people their listeners know?
help with two lines of this song
In this sentence, is changing “迎える” to “迎えられる” for a potential or honorific reason?
What does と in “対象とする” mean?
Appending 内 to a company name is read ない or うち?
-まする verb ending. Is る a particle?
Should: ほうがいい、べき、ことだ
Would “Jr.” be included with the family name or given name?
What's the difference between [歓喜]{かん・き} and [喜悦]{き・えつ}?
Is ある or いる used for moving water?
Is the object uniquely determined when using は in the following sentences?
Can もう一つ Be Used As a Question?
A single verb or phrasal verb that means “I have no choice but it is better if I let you win”?
In a sentence that ends with a verb, when could “が” modify a 3rd person pronoun?
Why is あるうちに correct but 残るうちに is not?
です after some verbs
Understanding ということのはずだ in this sentence
にしても and としても, is there a difference?
What are the differences between 出かける and 行く?
What form is あり?
Questions about causative constructions
貢がせる verb and its usage
“Irregular” 命令形 of some verbs
How to use nested causative?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
Use of past tense in quoting others
Using -ている form in the past tense
Is the name Madori Japanese?
家を出ます ? Why not に?
「５しゅうかん　日本語　を　べんきょうしました」or 「日本語　を　５しゅうかん　べんきょうしました」
What does 「～の　ほうが」 mean in this sentence?
What is the difference between Vてはじめる and はじめてV meaning?
Is the word ぐらい a noun? Why do we need の between ぐらい and はず?
What is the difference between 原因 and 要因, 解析 and 分析?
What does the word 「のたのたして」mean?
What is つ in 中つ国 and why is it equivalent to の?
What is correct reading for 舞桜
Is “da” used often in the casual speech?
Should the tense of predicate in main clause be the same as the tense of predicate in the relative clause?
What is the proper term for a bug fix with respect to Software Development
Do X and Y have the same state when using ~X にかぎらず Y?
How to use またしても?
About the meaning of 「しわよせ」
Inconsistency in applying direct object to 勝つ
Who is the subject of this sentence?
What are the most obscure kanji?
The meaning of 二条大宮の百鬼夜行
How to say my friend with a name
How to determine the scope of modifiers in long sentences?
Is a palindrome a thing?
Function of は in にはなる
Why/when should I use the different forms of this and that?
What does だって do in 「それは僕だって知ってる…」?
Is yen a Japanese word? [duplicate]
What is the origin and meaning of 馳せ参じる
Using から (because) with nouns, adjectives and verbs
Order of particles in a sentence
What is the nuance of 寝てもらう in this context?
How to use とても in Japanese
Saying for so much time / for so long
Why is the Kanji 「太」read 「ふとし]?
Help understanding odd usage of という
Why is it incorrect to say 「寒くて、窓を閉めてください」?
How do people Japan learn about onomatopoeic words and why does everyone agree on most of them?
What does the word 「とくら」 mean?
Is Japanese similar to English in that saying 享 twice in 享年 means last last year?
Does ''脅しじゃねえぞ'' mean ''not a threat''?
How does 非難される translate to English?
What do the words 「いうない」 and 「おねんねしなさい」mean?
Why is the place's official name written as “なら工藝館” (rather than “奈良工藝館”)?
What does the word 「はわして」mean?
Is 戦う related to 叩く?
Difference between 弾けるように and 弾きたい
Differences between words for “idiot”
Placement of まで
Which native speakers would be familiar with the expression [竜頭]{りゅうとう}[蛇尾]{だび}?
Can't find the definition of ずっきり
Saying something was happening when something happened
Help with translation, 「こっちっ側中心に攻める」
What is the function of として in this sentence? (Vたとして) [duplicate]
Usage of か after a clause?
What does っす at the end of a sentence mean?
Is it possible to use ～さえ～ば with more than one requirement?
When translating to English, how to preserve the emphasized part?
What's the meaning of までついて?
How to parse the following sentence containing phrases that look like direct quoted relative clauses?
The past tense casual form of iru and iku
ごごに vs. ごごは and ばんに vs. ばんには?
Do all kanji parts have a meaning?
Can I use both おさまって and おちついて to say “everyone, keep calm?”
What do words/expressions 段差{だんさ} and 理解知{りかいし}れない mean in this context?
How to describe a company that is disorganized?
Expressing a regretful wish
State of being in a relative clause help
寝ソバしよう meaning (from tweet)
Confused in determining the rule of composing ～さえ～ば sentence
What's the meaning of 来たこと?
~ばいい for suggestions
What does the word 「なりたかねえ」 mean?
Understanding this sentence: 心配で心配で
Sprachgefühl corresponding word in Japanese
Regarding と exhaustive list for comparison
教授 vs 先生 when adressing a university professor
Difference between 行き先 and 行く先
Why was て omitted in this relative clause?
Correct usage of 'you'?
Usage of 'か' in short sentences
When using しか, which part do we have to negate?
Adding つき to the end of nouns
what is the も in this phrase mean?
sou ka na and sou ka
How to say “I've never done it” without saying what “it” is
Why did the author use に in the following sentence?
Are 何気なく and 〜てしまう equivalent? If not, how do they differ?
Meaning of たァ after verb in dictionary form
How can verb て become an adverb?
Meaning of ボロカスにされる
Difference 先 vs さっき vs 前
Meaning of とる in 迷惑かけとる
What does ゴミが落ちていない mean when replying the question 日本に来て、驚いたことは何ですか?
Is たち in 子供たち redundant?
What is the proper translation for と続いた後で?
別に in non-negative clause
What does the word 「たしけて」mean?
“Begrudging Conditional”
What is the meaning of 「まちいな」?
how to pronounce 常暗い?
How should one interpret ～ていた + だなんて
Particle at the end of a sentence
What is the purpose of と in this sentence?
Help understanding Noun Phrases/Relative Clauses
Meaning of さてと and general comprehension
What additional meaning that なんだ add to the sentence
と聞いて in this sentence
Action : differences between 行動, 活動, 動作, 作用 and 仕草
What does との mean in this sentence?
Differences between 類似 and ような
Different nuance between よく and いつも
Meaning of 運動神経が良い
How to say “Mathematics has a great impact on technology.”?
What's the difference between 天国 and 高天原?
Questions about multiple particles 「が」 in a sentence
What is the meaning of 「読むには読んだ」?
Meaning of 勝つ手に
How does き を つけます translate to I'll be careful?
How should I translate からである in this sentence?
Is 他に essential in ～ほど～ない grammar?
Don't understand the structure of 「夕方アパートの山田さん宅の玄関で」
What does the word よれん mean?
Using particles with a time as a topic
Can someone break down かのじょ and かれ for me?
Using 胸が苦しい when talking about love
Does the 「の」 can be used as 「を」?
How to say “marriage equality”?
報復する meaning in this sentence
What is the difference between 片方の手 and 片手?
How to say “One day at a time” in romaji
polite and casual language— being asked to switch?
What's the meaning of 「〜どんなに抵抗しようとも限り…」
Adding additional information as an afterthought
“Where” construction; grammar question
皆さんはどんな字を書いていますか？ / How do Japanese speakers write kana or kanji by hand?
What's the difference between 「そうもない」 and 「ようがない」
Question about using だめ です
「とあって」vs. 「とあっては」
What does いい です mean in お飲み物は何がいいですか?
help with small line of Fate/stay night
What does 遅刻するとやばいんだけどな mean?
Gruff translation of ん
Is っ used with all consonants or only some of them?
Translation of “want to be taught by him”?
Meaning of 'すれ違う赤の軌道'
いけない in this sentence and V-て+noun
Is my Hiragana writing legible and easy to read? [closed]
Translation of a passage discussing zodiac systems
What is the official word for compound syllabaries in Japanese Hiragana?
Does “シャッターチャンス” have the same connotations as “photo op” in English?
Usage of ました form and た form with こと
Polite form of つかわないで ください
What is the meaning of 立腹
「自分でも」 and 「くらい」 what's it being used for here?
Is this written correctly? [closed]
What's meaning of 担当さん
“Less empty” and similar “double negatives”
What's meaning of ベシュワー and ３つくらい (there is an image)
The meaning of 「尋ねられもしないこと」
Master suppression techniques
Basic Grammar - の particle as an explanation
Watashi versus Wataxi, are they different accents?
Meaning of 参考に in this sentence
How to say “self-identify”?
Please Explain Dictionary Form + って (いるって)
What is the natural way to say “It is necessary for you to go home early”?
Why is this sentence not separated? 圧着部分を図１，２のように交互に折り込みドリッパーの内側にピッタリと装着します。
しかしそれがいったいどんなことなのか - “what the heck could have it been?” not sure of translation
How to understand やすくて in this sentence?
Expression for “lose track of time”
Expressing that two words have the same meaning
Is 夢を見せる the same as 夢を見る?
How to understand あえない in わかりあえない
もらいましょう meaning in a sentence
Please, explain みたのは
捨てても捨てても - what does this phrase mean?
How to understand the meaning 時にいくつか in this sentence?
What's meaning of デコグッズ、タモ
Why is it that Neptune's name is written as ネプテューヌ and not ネプチュヌ?
Two ways to say the same sentence: which is correct?
What is the second word after the 「リミット」 and what is モノ(there is an image)
The meaning of words from an image パシヤ （or パシャ） and しみる
Why can を be followed by a non-verb?
What's meaning of word くじけずに
Is nominalization necessary in 「彼が戻るのか知らないんです。」？
Can 預金 mean account?
「持っていっていい」 same as ? 「持っていってもいい」?
Abbreviating words by removing their okurigana
Do native speakers consider particles separate words?
What's the grammar of て-form + いて?
やましたせんせいはこどもでしたか
Role of の in this sentence
Why is this 少し followed by は?
Why is という in ボソニックという食べ物 (for example) written in ひらがな rather than と言う?
Any special meaning for “negative verb+なる (なってくる)”?
Difference between 言う and 話す
What does this say? [closed]
Need a brief explanation of the grammar of って when it means “if … then”
Do I need to use という in 「この話が事実に基づいているという証拠はある。」?
How to determine which object this もう少し modifies?
What does ても mean in this sentence?
Takasugi Shinsaku's quote
What's the use to append a に after みたい?
The answer to this question eludes me
What does this と do here?
ならでは vs. ぐらいのもの
Can we use 近づける without an explicit object?
Is it necessary the object of 近づける movable?
What is nuance of using 外来語 for simple nouns?
Word choice: ながらも vs. からこそ
Nuance of たましい?
Can't understand this idiom, is this slang?
Why can't I use は with ある?
Using ます-form inside a (compound, conditional) statement
When in doubt between -chan and -kun what to choose?
といいんです and といいんですけど
multiple たとえ even if (in a compound sentense)
How to say “A wants B to keep away from C.”?
げっそり自由 meaning?
Conjugation for the verb しろって
how should 断面神 be interpreted?
Counter intuitive meaning of お開き
Describing progress of a project
Why is 「微笑み選ぼう」 correct in grammar?
plain present verb + ちょる
How to say “changed academic course” in resume?
「あんたもマンガだ！！」 - how to understand it?
Is 猫神(ねこがみ) or 猫山(ねこやま) a crazy male japanese name to have? [closed]
だお (net slang?)
Meaning of や in 「もうどうだっていいや」
Learning Japanese from a female can create bad habits on my form of speak as a male? [closed]
Is みなすじ a “Precedented” Reading of 水脈?
I'm called and I think — the same?
Pronunciation of 書 when by itself (meaning “book” / “piece of writing”)
Difference between てこそ and からこそ
Meaning of の in 「現金の受け取り役」
Meaning of うららか in うららかな午後に
What is the meaning of なんで here and why?
「よかったでした」？ Is this correct?
use of 〜ちゃん as a generic term
What does this けど at the end of the sentence mean? [duplicate]
Sentence ending じゃよ
Difference between だろうか and ではないだろうか
How to ask “What are the necessary things to bring?” [closed]
Listing three or more items
The usage of ものの
Meaning in a technical standard
Can 誰にも be used in positive verb?
Difference between プランター and ウィンドウボックス
Most common/appropriate reading of 執行
what is the transcription of the following audios? [closed]
Difference between ために、せいで、おかげで when blaming someone
What does だけ mean in this sentence?
Can the prepositions と、に sometimes be Interchanged in a sentence?
Using し before a verb and する at the end
Which と is this in 話し合って、どうすると？
What is the Japanese word (noun) that means “the bittersweetness of a brief, fading moment of transcendent beauty.”?
What does verb+とする mean?
What is the meaning of 商{あきな}いせず?
What is the meaning/nuance of ~ことになる in this context?
A question on narration: does きいた mean 'asked' or 'heard'?
Understanding くらい
In which case should I use 連体形＋上で?
Meaning of this dialogue in Fukuoka dialect
Meaning of this sentence
Why is the same english meaning of ため tied to different japanese meanings in different dictionaries?
What is it called when staff at a clothes shop serves a customer
Should I use ～てきた or ～て来た?
What is the ki used for in this sentence? 懐かし き 故郷 [duplicate]
Alternate expressions for “a little while”
What does ため do in this sentence?
Combining だけ and 位
Verb in dictionary form followed by のと
How to say “I hope I can” in this situation?
What does the word 「さし心地」mean?
How to read 大船 when it means “big boat”
In this sentence, to whom 自分 refers?
Can たり be used without する at the end?
Confused over 「ろうそくが置かれている」
「三昧だと」と「帰宅しようとしていた」 meaning?
Difference between 募集 vs 採用
How should I translate 彼が即死した?
The 「って」 + 「いい」 in this sentence what does it mean?
The 「と」 conditional to be used as “when”?
Can you translate this for me? [closed]
Is it ok to read こみち as komiti?
The purpose of an auxiliary verb あげる
Is there any difference between 流石 and 予想した通りでした?
Differences Between 蘇生する and 蘇る
Expressing scientific notation and units in speech
Difference between チケット, 切符 and 乗車券
Usage/context of 「私ね…」
Recognizing old Japanese handwriting
What does かけ mean in こわれかけのオルゴール?
confusing usage of でも
What is “かたいことばかりは言えないがだ”?
What is the counter for coins?
What does the 「な」 mean in 「出過ぎず、足りな過ぎずな完璧な躰は」?
Understanding わかんないこと言うんじゃないのっ
Last sentence of company president's speech: translate or not to translate
Translation of 「項目」in the company president's speech
「時間」「約束」「用事」の修飾 (Noun modification for these 3 nouns)
Does 「私は緊張してです私の日本語学習ついて」 read properly?
片手でも指が余る meaning?
Is there some set sentence for 「XXXX年度海外予算会議社長講評」?
Difference between 負担 and ロイヤルティ
What is the function of というのは in this sentence? Is there a relation to the word because? [duplicate]
Using i-adjective color words
How to use the verb こもる
Masu te-form with Kudasai?
Meaning of ぐらいじゃ足りない
「言ってたら」What is the meaning behind the “te-tara” form?
～と多い here meaning?
dilemma with hana-bi and hana hi
How to use このたびの + N
会話では助詞を省略することができるかできないか、くわしく説明してもらいたいです。
魚心あれば水心あり: what does 心 do exactly?
Phrasing with two clauses & how to say 'is'?
Does the ゛ have any use?
When is “na” used at the end of a sentence?
Why is the name Tokiya written in katakana?
Attaching は to a direct quote
Dictionary form (解ける) as potential form (解けられる)?
は and が with 何 & こそあど
Explaining the phrase なかなか片{かた}付{づ}かない
The particle は (wa)
Saying you'll do/have done something for a certain amount of time?
How do you differentiate “nande” (why) and “nande” (how, by what means)?
The differences between そうです ・ ようです
Compound verb with きれる
Why use が in the sentence below? [duplicate]
~かえす and ~なおす as suffixes
How to say “clean up” (for example a house or a room) in Japanese?
What does 笑みがこぼれてくる mean and how is it different to 笑みがこぼれる
What does こう mean in this sentence?
What's the grammar behind どうせ?
このとおりよ as an expression
て頂く、てもらう, に. Who does the action?
Which form is はじめまして?
女子 vs 女の子 nuances
〜の vs 〜と before 分かる
Possible conjugations on certain grammar patterns
Help with this sentence
What's the meaning of 「これはというもの」?
Noun + da kara desu — why are da and desu mixed? why not both “da” or both “desu”?
How do you say 'it'?
Is the stroke order native Japanese speakers use for romaji different to those of native English speakers?
Confusing use of 減る
How do you say “a light read”?
Can もの be replaced with の when it is used to mean “thing”?
How to say “written by”
Do native Japanese speakers confuse “オーストリア” and “オーストラリア”
…verb+ところあったのか
What is the verb ending of われん mean?
Meaning of 言われ + ても
Meaning of kaomoji: ﾖﾛ(｀・ω・´)ｽｸ！
What's the correct transliteration of ~“yao mae”?
Oldest Japanese Pronunciation for “When Is It?”
What is this い sound change?
What does 探訪 mean here?
What does という change in this sentence?
How to say 'I had never been before'
How can よ be used as part of a question?
When does pitch accent reset?
In a clause, which is the correct use, が or は？
Words for narcotics
The finer points of the word 代理店
りかい します Or わかります
How to say “the third time since I started making…”
How is 値 (あたい・ち・ね) read and when?
Why is “さん” used as a suffix for these people's CVs / profiles?
What does いきなりはじめんといてよ mean
How is 「の」 used in 終わりのない? [duplicate]
How to ride an escalator
Should I use “Te-” form or “Koto mo” for this?
何も言うでない ! meaning and origin
Using お or わ (wa or o)
まだ with verb ending ～ません and ～ていません
What is the difference between 見つける and 探す
Capitalized letters in juridical documents - into Japanese
“Reversal” nuance of なら
Is there a functional difference between 優しげ vs 優しい?
What does そういうことだよ mean here?
Is there any difference in meaning between 「抜け切る」 and 「抜ける」?
What are the origins of ド when used as emphasis, and is it always negative?
What does やっぱり mean in [そこまでなんだって、思っちゃうもん……やっぱり]
What is meant by 包容力見せてる here?
Saying someone “looked cool”?
Meaning of 〜たつもりでも〜ても～。
How to determine the scope of subject?
困っている usage / different meanings depending on context?
Translating sentences containing し
Why are the high-pitched voices of children 'yellow'?
Difference between 見忘れる and 忘れる
Trouble understanding sentence
Use of も after quote particle
〜ということ and just 〜こと
Would both of these sentences be correct?
Japanese for shirtfronting
て-form and other conjugations of 謙譲語
relative clause with Causative-Passive Verb
Help with a Japanese joke: the link between メダカ and 小学生
Help understanding とわかった
In compound words what is it called when two Ks assimilate into a っ?
Nuance of saying “同い年”? And, it is 当て字?
How do I read 100°C in Japanese?
とする・にする before a noun
How do you use ～たりする with ～たい to say things that you want to do?
Why is というのは used (both times) in this sentence?
だけでなく and にとどまらず
に恥じる (Clarification on に)
Adjectives and particles が に
Do 午前 / 午後 change depending on minutes
How to list multiple purposes for an action?
What is N+できる grammar?
Asking 'how much'?
Help with grammar number
How often do single dots stick to the top of kanji?
汗をかくvs 発汗する - is there a difference?
How to say “as I am doing…”?
What does “da” mean in “tabeta bakari da”?
What is 寒ぶ寒ぶ? (in following sentence)
で and counters in NHK article
Meaning of ことにはわからない
Is this sentence structured correctly?
What's the meaning of 上 in this sentence?
Meaning and usage of ものとする
Help parsing つまんないないんだよ
Meaning of …ていいから and other puzzles
none of us is as smart as all of us
How do I say organize in Japanese as in organize an event?
If the particle wo is used to indicate direct object why isn't it used in some sentences where there are direct objects?
what is this kanji? why is it used?
Meaning of 人材を作り上げる
Can someone please help me understand the structure of this sentence?
Meaning of くる in 鼻の奥まで染みこんでくる
What does the ”なの” in this sentence mean?
to overshadow in japanese
興味を持っている vs 興味がある
using の with と,で, から, まで
na-adjective + に particle?
What is the difference between ガスコンロ and ガスレンジ?
What is the difference between「ブームメント」 and「ムーブメント」and do they share the same connotation as “movement” in English?
によって and passive question
Why are some sharks named after birds?
What difference does it add when you write それで or これで instead of それは/それが and これが/これは?
What is 「ピプロシン体」？
The meaning of どちらが割に合うんだかな
What is the name of paper to train how to write kanji?
When talking about percents can I use ◯◯パーセント as well as ◯割◯分?
Is there a standard way to clearly differentiate similar handwritten (kana) characters?
Why is the kanji of idiot written with the kanji for “horse” and “deer” together?
Expressing difference between “fluent” and “native speaker” in Japanese
What is the origin of 付いてる meaning “to be lucky”?
what is the difference between である ＆ という
Two を in a single sentence - how to understand it?
Difference between ます and です
“め” in “五匹め” implies some sort of “ordering”? Where it makes sense, the default is “time”?
Is Facebook's use of double が grammatically unambiguous?
Use of として in sentence about conditionals
Adapting 楽しい時を過ごしてください
Can we re-position ほど phrase?
What does 楽しめよ really mean?
What does どういった mean in this sentence?
What purpose does はめ serve in this sentence?
漂わせる meaning in this context
Meaning of ～したいぐらい
Can 達 be used to pluralize inanimate things?
Causative Form - Difference between 子供に本を読ませる　and 子供を本を読ませる
What's the difference between 上手い, 美味い, 旨い, and 巧い?
What is the function of というのは in this sentence?
思う pronunciation
meaning of 楽{たの}しむ, the verb being used intransitively
Please enlighten me about a haunting "が”
What does あこ mean?
Understanding why に particle means “because” in this sentence
Use of と in these two sentences + のぼる or あがる
Usage of を in 自らを豊作を司る
What does “ごゆるりと” mean?
difference between 級 and 位
「星のカービィ」- Why ィ and not ー?
「いつまで待つつもり」 v.s. 「いつまで待っているつもり」
On the interpretation of an ambiguous(?) sentence from 「風立ちぬ」
Just like “ら抜き” is there also “い抜き” such as “見ている” --> (い抜く) --> “見てる”?
Use of で in 小川さんは語学が得意で、フランス語もイ夕リア語もできます
腸が痛い: How do you know when your intestines hurt?
を and と used with 考える
What does “俺も俺か” mean?
Do I need to add “da” before “to iimashita”?
Japanese Nouns problem
Is「挑発に対応しなかった」another way to say「挑発に乗らなかった」?
Symbol for smiling
「一生懸命」と「一所懸命」の使い方は同じでしょうか？
Figurative language ひどく下品な上に
Confused about 宿を取らないで, and usage of 打つ
[苛々 ]{いらいら} versus [刺々 ]{いらいら}
What does ゴリってる mean?
NA particle meaning?
several difficulties reading an extract about Kobayashi Issa's works
Has the meaning of “revenge” been lost in translation to リベンジ?
Is it correct - クッキング・テール?
Possible meanings of the expression 退職金返上
さえ: How to use it?
De wa or dewa, noob question
Subject and object of a passive sentence are interchangeable?
What does …なくはない mean?
Etymology of names of playing cards?
Sentences using humble expressions and multiple verbs
On 「夢だけど、夢じゃなかった」 from 「となりのトトロ」
ほしがっている versus ほしそうだ
What is the meaning of ことに当たるように?
Purpose of “のだ” in “数年も漁村に住んでて、いろんな魚種類を食べてるのだ”?
What does たら do at the end of a sentence?
Two Kanji Radicals for “River”?
What does 辞書形＋といけない mean?
meaning of そんななか、
“Alcohol-free” event
だんだん読めないようになった versus だんだん読めなくなってきた
Why is there a な in this sentence?
自分 How to know what it means?
手えふった - what is the "え” here?
Question regarding the use of なのに
Another way to express the reason for doing something, apart from ために
What nuance does 引き締まった顔 imply?
How to say “100% virus free”?
Best way to say “if you don't mind ____” in this circumstance?
What is the correct “healthy” adjective for healthy foods?
Is 子宮が疼く commonly used for wanting a child?
How to say “Knowing that I hurt you is breaking my heart”
Obscure religious expression
足りません - can it also mean 'missing'?
What's a “ship” called in Japan?
Meaning of 一度や二度じゃ、とうてい伝えきれないくらいに
ことわざ for staying out of things you don't understand
Why is it using いらなくなった instead of いらなかった here?
What does ～がままになる mean?
When to use 倒れる or 落ちる?
Is 翻す a former compound verb that merged into its current form?
Grammatical Pattern : VerbてのNoun
How do I tell if the に particle is indicating a target or a source?
盃に口をつけてごまかすほど to describe a 祝杯
Proper form of なさる - なさります or なさいます
Nuance between 僕 and 俺?
Desire form verbs (~たい), is there a polite form?
Metaphor of collecting dirt [closed]
Native Japanese word for フリー
滅日 meaning and J-J definition problems
When to use 座る vs 坐る
Can とか have the same meaning as も?
How do I read 田中孝司 as a name? [duplicate]
I have some problem with passive form of verbs, and actually with に particle in it
What does “兄者など” mean?
Identifying who's who?
How to say “speakers” as in electronic speakers?
Are constructions like listing with 中黒 used in speech?
What does なってる mean?
What does なってる mean?
Is はおる a commonly used verb
On the usage of 「は」 and 「が」 in a poem by 谷川俊太郎
On the interpretation of 「酷い言われようだ」
Is the 「て」 missing from 「され」 in this sentence?
How to correctly use でございます when speaking with a superior?
What other forms of the progressive verb can be shortened?
what is “progressive form” in japanese?
かのじょはブルスが生きさせる。
When is 凝る pronounced こる vs こごる?
Does は mean 'at least' in this sentence?
What does 斜めに流すこと mean?
Two different polite forms of the conditional conjugation
Referring to myself [duplicate]
Difference between 赤｛あか｝ and 赤色｛あかいろ｝ [duplicate]
What is the function of “o”?
Saying bye bye to others [closed]
Using 出る as opposed to 出かける
Difference between 問う, 聞く, and 訊ねる
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
Strange question/answer pattern
How should “四月は君の嘘” be translated?
Why is this katakana not reversed?
Different conjugations of the verb 住む
鞘に収める expression. Meaning?
Does this sentence make sense? [closed]
楽しました vs 楽しめました
Asking somebody's name
Meaning of このなかでは
About 忙 and 忘 using same radicals but having different meanings
What is the meaning of 「日本新」in this comedy premise?
What does こと mean in this context?
Why is「から」used in this sentence?
Japanese for “Dami Im”
What does yoroshiku (gozaimasu) mean?
Is there a difference in meaning between 何時間寝ますか and 何時に寝ますか
Why write「もの」instead of 「物」 or 「者」?
Can compound words like 「外食」be considered as a morpheme?
What does の in 朝の台所 mean?
Difference between か and のか
Meaning of this 無手勝流の剣にしては！やる！line?
Difference between 友情【ゆうじょう】 and 友好【ゆうこう】
Another way to say “これはだれの___ですか？”
What does the に do in 表情から察するに?
Confusing use of possessive の
Understanding ”どっちがいい？”
How to say “if you eat too saltly, it is unhealthy to you” in Japanese using“塩辛い(しおからい)”
Meaning of sentence in dialogue
Difference between そういう and そんな
Translation of なんだから
Marking questions in a story narration
definition and usage of ~いずれも
What's the difference between wa (は) and ga (が)?
冬に助けられたし　（Who was?)
Addressing other members of the same great family when everyone shares the same surname
なっている when does it mean resultant state, and when does it refer to progression?
Verb tenses in hypothetical situations
meaning of にしてみたら
Translation of 権現様: literally or not?
Meaning of 水面 in reference to population
Using a person's name in place of a pronoun
Comparison of 4 different ways to ask something
Casual usage of i-adjectives and ending particles
Is the word 「やんな」positive or negative?
How to say “I found my glasses”
んですが and differences in nuance with んです
What is the function of だろう?
What does だから、ではないが mean?
とでたしか。。。出してられます: particle and tense question
Sonkeigo forms of できる and なかったら
Can「箱の中を手で探った」be shortened to 「箱を探った」?
What the difference between using か and が for a question?
らせる typo for される or different word?
What does 活躍話 mean?
Deciphering Kawaii Writing
Usage of 認めよう and 空 on this page?
Understand the difference between [dictionary/ない + ようとする] and [volitional + にする]
Meaning of the word どんこ
Is 望む a typo for 臨む in this sentence?
What does 'タメを作る' mean?
What is the purpose of repeated words?
本来なければ usage and meaning
IPA transcription of kana づ please
What is potential form?
What does トラックなど１２台の車 mean?
めちゃくちゃ寒いもん : Because it is freezing, or because it would be freezing?
Why is たばこ written in hiragana instead of katakana?
Is this 全くだ meant to be irony?
Why are there different names for the same kanji radical?
The meaning of 一丁前にてれちゃっても
About the second の in 不思議の国のアリス
What does ダークホース mean here?
以上 and adjectives
の他に（も）grammar example sentences
Meaning of て-form followed by さ
Liter/100 km or km/liter, which one is used in Japan?
When did 濁点 and 半濁点 come into use?
Question about だれが「おまえを好きだ」と言った
Meaning of とっぴょうしもねぇ
Titles of paintings as precedent phenomena
How to say “plunge into (studies)”?
からは meaning in this sentence
Difference between 設定する and 調整する
Comparison of “迷惑をかける” and “手数をかける”?
What does “ne” in “so ne” and “gambaru ne” mean?
What does “Ouen shite iru yo!” mean exactly?
Can お[邪魔]{じゃま}します be used in cases of long-term stay?
What does "ああ　こいつ　ひろわれっ子なんで　かーちゃんいないんだ”
What does the word 「すねぐれて」mean?
“Business” email letter opening when their signed name is their language center?
Usage and meaning of 連絡を入れる
What does [雲行]{くもゆ}き mean?
Difference between 谷 and 谷間?
Meaning of volitional passive form
Meaning of phrase そこそこ上手く、そこそこ下手
Aspects in stylistics/meaning of 東雲
Can katakana ワ be used in official name?
Meaning of 私の方が好きだけどね
What does this sentence including もとで mean?
What does the 「たあ」 do in this sentence?
meaning of the verb 工夫 in this example
Can I use Kanji for my first name?
What does the 「な」 do in this sentence?
最後に「か」が置かれると疑問文になるかどうか
What does 「風が強く吹いている。」 mean?
Question + は置いといて
Custom ateji (?) made by authors
に防ぐ or が防ぐ Which one is correct?
What is the level of politeness for 我々?
To turn/rotate Shinkansen chair
Is お・ご～させていただく 二重敬語?
“Uncle's jokes !?”
function of “できる” in this example
お土産 - May this be used for oneself?
For which verb is を marking the object [duplicate]
Is it correct to say 複雑な波長?
嫌い in “私のことを好きか嫌いか”, etc
How to say “This day is going by too quickly” in Japanese?
Odd use of も has me stumped
Does “fukushuu suru” mean “review” or “revise”?
Changing が to の outside of relative clauses
僕がついてればいいんですけど。いそがしいもんですね。
How to say “X movies” that are movies about X
Use of particles for なにも in response to the question “What is in something?”
What is the difference between ている and ています?
How is 百にも足らぬ used here?
Why で instead of を in しんぐもつちぼこりでよごしてしまいました。
Is 食べてたい correct?
How to say “still waiting for me”?
How to say “I grew up thinking about X”?
How to say 'an outdoorsy person' in Japanese
Translation of “取り扱いを決めて物事の決まりをつけること。”
Use of Tsukerarete in this sentence
Deciphering handwritten phrase and its meaning
Natural way to ask what project/work someone has been doing lately
placement of the adjective/adverb いっぱい
Describing lego brick dimensions in Japanese
What is the meaning ウソ & 誰向 in this sentence
How do you say, “I have been an annoying person lately.”?
けど usage in ”魔石灯”がいい例だけど、”魔石”は…
What does the Japanese diminutive suffix “chan” indicate?
か at the end of a news story title. Is it a question?
Does 筈はなくて grammar construction have a negative connotation?
What does ギョグ mean?
What is the difference between 失恋する and 振る?
What exactly are the differences between 大体, だいぶ and 大部分
Difference between 増やす and 増加する?
What is the meaning of the following build 「信じられない事に～～ではありませんか」?
そうです expressions
Is this sentence about specific people, or a certain type of people in general?
Tracing subject sentence and missing classifier
What do ほどしかない and 行かないといけないから mean?
What does 言っちゃえば mean? And what does 地面を蹴っていた mean?
Can 主に modify a 体言?
Continuative てform of adjective and noun
Unknown grammar: でいたい structure
What does the word 「ばっきゃろ」mean?
Multiple Pitch Accents
ーているの construction and use of もの
Romanization of kanji compounds: when are spaces used?
Who is the subject in the following sentence?
How to find out the meaning of hand-written japanese?
Is it correct to say 私は二人のお兄さんがいる?
Common origin of uses of the か particle
Why is there a と in front of 別? [duplicate]
To test appliance before buying
Are there really 200 000 maids in one building?
Company officer
What does かみつれ mean?
Difference between the kanjis for “tears/なみだ”: 涙 and 泪
What does で do in this?
How to say “I will have arrived home by 6 pm.”
What would change if I used the causative in this sentence?
Help deconstructing a paragraph
Regarding どういたしまして usage
Appropriateness of using ～たい in a polite setting: “Have you always wanted to be a teacher” in Japanese
Using 〜になる instead of です?
Usage of か I keep encountering
Health related kanji compound: 了承群
Is 食品昏睡状態 a thing?
A lost haiku from the Heian period about the death of a child
How offensive is ぷっくりする?
〜と whenever's second clause must follow first clause
けっこんしていらっしゃいますか or けっこんなさっていますか
落ちしないかなあって思ってる sentence breakdown
What does “なあ” & ”なんて” mean in this sentence. (うん、めずらしいなあ、めぐみのほうがおそいなんて）
Which が is this?
Meaning of verb followed by ちゃ
Difference between 柄 and 模様
Proper form of なさる - なさります or なさいます
のために + ～てあげる/くれる
What is the etymology behind したっけ
Can 「XければXほどY」 clause pattern be shortened to 「XほどY」?
How to say at most one?
Past negative tense じゃなかったでした
「感じさせてくれるところ」の意味と使い方
How to pronounce “R → ∞ ” in a mathematical context
「残業代」と「残業費」の違いを教えてください。
How to use ～でも and ～も?
Is the verb necessary for this sentence to make sense?
Meaning of にまでなる
What would be the specific name of this type of bowl?
Different word about Back and spine
How to say “I had a fight with” and “to be angry with each other”
Is there a difference between ご飯 and 御飯?
続けて回っている versus 回り続けている
What does ～したいところだ mean?
Difference between ざまに and ながら
面白かった Vs. 有名だった
Five different verbs meaning “to close” with the same kanji (閉)
に満ちた and particles に　が
Is なんとか なる さ meant to be written in Hiragana and not Katakana?
しか before a clause
Which is used more / is more natural in speech? 突然 or どっと?
敬語 with and without ～になる
Dakuten used in non-standard ways (like with vowels)?
meaning of 四里四方{しりしほう}
What is the correct way to romanize ッジ?
ば　ほど with 2 different verbs; 気持ちの持ちよう
門前払いを受けている expression
Kanji that represent “Death before Dishonor” meaning
Best translation of おトク
Is there a slang meaning to “ダニ~ナｱｱ…”? [closed]
Meaning of ようともしない
So I am reading through a text and I am not sure if my translation of this sentence is correct [closed]
Help identifying signature
Meaning of 不人気街道一直線
What is the commonly used phrase (if any) to convey the meaning of “detail-oriented analyst”? [duplicate]
What is the correct interpretation of Aの本はBの本のように多くない?
What does the word 「しおって」 mean?
Difference between onyomi words and kunyomi words
Understanding 勝手
What is the meaning of 幾里?
Confusing sentence
ようにと meaning and Causative of する verbs
What does [文] as in “[文]のに対して” stand for?
Am I correctly using は and が here.
相乗りの意味はなんですか。「商品相乗り」「相乗りしたショップ」はなんですか？
Origin of the pronunciations of 観音 and 漢音
Difference between 「ことを伝えて」 and 「と伝えて」
I am really not sure of what カンナ is saying in this text [closed]
Help with understanding a “broken” 手紙文
Help understanding this sentence
Use of number+ counter as a noun
Which is the family name in 「工藤 拓 (くどう たく) 」?
Origin of Natsume Soseki's Translation of “I love you”
In what context do you pronounce 行く as ゆく? [duplicate]
ことができる versus V~える form
持たせる meaning in this sentence
Word correction help [closed]
Why would one write 譬｛たと｝える this way?
How to say “Do you want to know?” in Japanese 尊敬語?
〜がほしがっています vs 〜をほしがっています
How to say “am getting used to” something
What does the following sentence say about field fires?
Why does native speakers rather say 言う通り not 言った通り?
Does 私の名前はXYZです sound natural?
Rain on your parade [closed]
japanese verb for “to surf the internet”
Why does “子” often come at the end of a woman's name, but comes at the start of the term for a baby animal?
Japanese for Australian-style community colleges
Is 飲んだことがない identical to 飲まなかったことがある?
Is there something wrong with this sentence? 暑いから水を飲みました。
What is the Japanese phrase to convey the meaning of “to declare attendance”?
What is the dictionary form of sukunai?
Does Nする always become a transitive verb?
“That's my train”
大変　How to choose correct meaning
Would you consider the で in 日本食で一番好きなのは・・・ to be the particle で or the -te form of だ?
Word order of actions when using nagara (while)?
「自分」の使い方を詳しく説明していただけませんか。
What is the nuance of わかりゃあせん vs regular わかりません?
Do ～せずに～したほうがいい and ～しながら～しないほうがいい have identical meaning?
Is there a difference between 'futari' and 'futari-domo'?
How do I read 数 in ページ数?
What does 箸にも棒にもかからない describe?
What is しか here?
In Japanese, can we say an object asks a question?
function of そう in the middle of a senctence
When to use おう and when to use おー?
For time adverbs, are particles instead of commas used in official (legal) writing?
Why is う sometimes read as “o” instead of “u”?
Why doesn't 教 end in“-う”? [closed]
How to use verb stem+始める?
The correct way of using toki
How to read kanji on the attached photos?
と indicating a condition that results in an inevitable outcome
How to say “I'm happy to be here right now”
Other uses of the particle と: トンネルを抜けると雪国であった
A question about 直る and 修理
A relative clause in a relative clause (Nested relative clauses)
Should one use うもれる or うずもれる in this sentence?
How was the first Japanese-English dictionary made?
How do I read 上 in ご注文の際は予めそちらをご了承の上お願い致します? What does it mean?
What does 「という事になっている」mean in this context?
What does it say on this masu?
What are the best ways to convey the idea of getting to a destination?
The potential form 思う and 思える are two different things?
幅広い in this sentence
Need help with understanding a sentence [closed]
What is the name for kanji that only have ON reading, but no KUN reading?
Plural reflexives: among themselves
は and を or の and わ
When to use ます-stem + かかる
「〜といいます」 vs 「〜というものです」 when introducing oneself
What does the grammar “noun が noun、verb” mean?
Kanji for なくす - to lose something
Adjective-Noun vs Noun-が-Adjective
Examples using 果てる
Why does 屋根 means roof and 天井 means ceiling? Shouldn't it be the contrary?
Difficulty understanding なんないのも
What does また アリでも入ったのかなぁ～ mean?
Understanding ハッとしたように
Using demonstratives with time periods
Japanese for baby kangaroo
What does ま、いっか。めんどくさいし mean?
What's the pitch accent of すなわち?
What does もんね mean?
What is the purpose of 中 in ダウンロード中?
身にまとう related question
すると meaning in this sentence
すると meaning in this sentence
How to conjugate multiple adjectives using て-form with conflicting tenses?
Conjunctive form (e.g. 書き) vs Conj + mono (e.g. 書き物)
How to make comparisons like “the wider the river the easier to navigate”?
Multiple verbs without implying that they all happen, “or”
I'm doing 自己PR, how can I say that I'm a person who doesn't give up?
Use of non-polite form between Japanese companies
What's the meaning of 乃?
Strange usage of というもの
Is there a name for kanji with the same ON and KUN readings?
Why some tutorials teach writing Japanese numbers with Hiragana when they are actually written with Katakana (as on-yomi) in dictionaries?
What does it mean by 涙を預けて?
Why is it 悪魔 and not 悪の魔?
Meaning of と in this sentence from BKB Lesson 9
What's the difference between 魔{ま} and 鬼{おに}?
Inaccurate ruby for 等?
Identification of ライヤ: 来夜、来耶、来也 and its meaning
願いは叶う or 願いが叶います?
Difference between ときがある and ことがある
How to say “Several times but each on different day” in Japanese?
Adding く to な-adjectives?
Difference between 〜ておく and 〜っぱなし
How to say “less” in Japanese (I want to do X less)
What is so うまそう about the flower name スノードロップ?
What does 将 mean?
How to read this calligraphy? What does it mean?
How to say “by ___”
What is the image/feeling/concept behind 面白半分に◯◯する?
What's the difference between 売る and 売れる？
What is this Kanji?
Nouns, Counters, Adverbs of quantity
Meaning of っていうのにも
why is でのこと used?
What does 便りの空だのみ mean?
What does 捜す refer to here?
How can I frame this ダジャレ to sound funny?
Trouble with translation 「アジア人歌手では過去最大級となる。」
Which of these means affection 愛情, 愛 or 情?
How to say “even” in Japanese?
trouble with comprehension: 最大公約数的な and くらいにまで
Is わきみち wakimichi 【脇道 · わき道】 common?
An alternate connotation of よかった？
What is “を ” used for when not attached to a verb at the end of a sentence? [closed]
～としたら What is the purpose in this context?
Economic Sentence Translation help [closed]
What's the difference between 勇ましい, 勇気, and 勇敢?
How do you say “if and only if” in Japanese?
Is 日 “hi” or “ni”? [duplicate]
How do I say “Comrade X” in Japanese?
よりに meaning in this context
What does 先｛さき｝ mean here?
Is there P in japanese
“I would argue that studying abroad helps you learn about what's around you”
Clarification on 僕は落ちるのが怖い
What is the difference between Oyasumi and Oyasuminasai?
What is the difference between 元気 and 元氣?
What does 撓｛た｝める mean in these 2 sentences?
How do I say “cat”? And do I use kanji, hiragana, katakana or rōmaji?
Uses of [◯]{まる} symbol in Japanese typography
Is 判決が[下]{くだ}る a common expression?
Japanese for submarine sandwich
“Cold” in Japanese: When to use 寒冷
Trouble working out when the next word starts [duplicate]
Verb combination (なりたくって and き消す etc.)
Use of ン in place of の
Verb clause for someone else?
Difference between てぶくろ and グローブ
Can I use only hiragana when writing words/sentences?
What does のも mean in 仕事が忙しすぎるのも考えものだけど、時間が余るのもなぁ?
Is it ok to start learning Japanese? [closed]
What does 斜め mean here?
Phrase translation: 何を言い出すかと思えば
Usage of で (Continuative?)
と after counting something
What is the nuance of お人好し vs いい人?
Most appropriate word for 'antonym' – 対義語 or 反対語?
The order after 男女比
Understanding だから…言ったろ
Correct romanization for ベオウルフ (Beowulf) and the use of ō
What is a good antonym for 多難 (many difficulties)?
Kanji in the Fox Engine logo
Why is Toyota typically written in Katakana? (トヨタ)
Is なんだから is related to のだ?
Question about probable meaning of 返済 in a sentence
「だといえども」はどういう意味ですか？~What does だといえども mean?
Membership awareness to differentiate は and が?
Using に as subject marker in non-passive/causative sentence
Japanese words with を in shiritori?
What is the most correct translation of “nyoi bō” (如意棒), “compliant pole” or “mind stick”?
Translating 受け継ぐ as “released” or “inherited”?
How do I say “Is the sun out today” in Japanese?
How to turn an independent clause into a subject?
Do the 「 なんやら」and 「なにやら」have the same meaning?
Breaking down a translation: 彼は大政治家になりたいという大望を忘れたことはなかった。
Should I repeat -san to refer to someone whos name ends in san?
Making someone feel something
Special use of ~たら to translate あとで?
What does 鉢の木帯 mean?
What do 「し」and「あった」mean in this sentence?
“Strike while the iron is hot” - Japanese equivalent
N#~~~JLPT Level Names
ない in つまらない and similar adjectives and their conjugation with すぎる
How to use both causative and て欲しい grammar at the same time?
What are the functions of というのは, かというと and がですね in this sentence?
Translation help! 置いておきます
Difference between “現住所” and “連絡先” on Japanese resume?
How to use の如く.
What is the meaning of 「ほうが」in this sentence?
What does 保証 mean in this context?
Self Introduction - じこしょうかい [closed]
The role of the particle に in ばかものに考えているに思えた。 [closed]
Pronunciation of 緑町
Function of から in this conversation
ておく → とく in other contexts; similar 2-kana to 1-kana shortcuts?
Difference between 結論を[下]{お}りる and 結論する
動物を使った言い方 or 動物を使う言い方?
Is the pronunciation for the following sentences incorrect? [closed]
How would I say: The cat thought a snake appeared?
How to understand this phrase?
What is the role of the そうに?
What is the max number of kanji a jukugo can be made of?
What's the difference among [停]{と}める、[止]{と}める、and [留]{と}める?
Tobira あいづちとフィラー article
「X」と「Y」と - how does the second と affect the sentence?
Need help with translation/grammar 「なんの」
Use て form to talk about two or more activities you like?
conjugation: やあります vs やります [closed]
Conjugation of い adjectives - when do you conjugate them and difference between 新しい車 and 新車?
What particle should I use with “motomeru”?
V-ている方が meaning
激情 and its pronunciation
What's the difference between それ、これ and あれ
をも: Is this sentence grammatically correct?
How to say choices in Japanese?
Grammar question with verb in past tense plus houga
What is the difference between 手招く and 招く?
What is the meaning of 「でしたか」 in the sentence「あなたの職場はテプラでしたかネームランドでしたか？」?
私には無理です or 私は無理です
Can “AはBに影響されない” and “AはBに影響しない” ever have the same meaning?
Response to “Watashi wa nomu no ga suki, *demo*…”
るとき or たとき with たい?
Understanding this sentence: あなたのこれと僕のこれをぱくってください。
Why can a single word have more than one Kanji?
Why 次第 instead of によって in this very example?
How can you divide verbs into conjugation groups easily?
Why isn't the word for triangle トラヤングル?
Etymology of 鼻の下を伸ばす / 「鼻の下を伸ばす」の語源
What construction is this? “でしか~できない”
What does ゆいって mean?
Making relative clauses in passive and active forms for every part of a sentence
ないとなると meaning in a sentence
Do non-native speakers of English find gairaigo more difficult to learn than native speakers of English?
What onomatopeia is ばたりばたり?
いる or ある for things attached to living beings
Help translating a phrase [closed]
見る + に particle: why is る not dropped?
What does で do in this sentence?
The use of present and past tenses in ～時 sentences
is there a way to display the hito/jin 人 in non-simplified form?
X+これを久しゅう meaning
Should と be appended in 「自分の利益を得んがための発言では、人の心を動かせない。」?
What does Mr. Driller say when he picks up an oxygen tank?
Positive Imperatives When Telling Someone Not to Do Something
Is there a word for “studied” or I have to use 勉強はした?
Is repetition of words in questions, such as the 番 in 電話番号は何番ですか common in Japanese?
What does みぞれは雨のような雪です mean? [closed]
Must relative clauses attach directly to the noun they are modifying
Meaning and use of どの when not in a question
Common ways of asking for someones phone number
Maths sentences: 足す and 掛ける
Hikaru no Go Manga - dialogue question
Translation help: 私が困っているのがはつおんですね
Use of に in ぼくにも出来る
た or ていた? Is “turned right” a state or an action?
Comma between adjectives?
とまらない in One Punch Man OP meaning とまれない (negative potential)
Formal linguistic term for a “prepositional object”?
How would you express “sphere” or “world” in the Japanese language?
Is there any case in which we can use 今日の間に?
How do I translate 「コロッと転がってたりする」 to english?
How is 口 used here?
Which conjugation is this? 吸わないようにしています
A question on event timing
Where did the reading for 鏡 in 眼鏡 come from?
Is 時間がありますか unnatural?
What dialect is this?
Why does Japanese lack word wrapping? [closed]
て-form of いる in compound sentence
Phrase/word for “human to god” love / idolatry?
嬉しい vs 幸せ. Which one to use in this case?
volitional + negative verb special meaning or kimarimonku
N3 Pattern: Difference of 「～かわりに」、「～反面」、「～一方（で）」
Meaning of 声をそろえる
Context of “何様のつもりか”
Multiple は particles in a sentence
How to talk about style
Are かた and 人 interchangeable in this sentence?
i-adjective + na-adjective + noun
How to say IS / ISIS / ISIL / Daesh?
What happened to the を sound?
Causative-Potential or Causative-Passive
Why are there many kanji that are read and mean the same?
Help understanding “口に出しては何も言わない”
Meaning of sentence「最近よくじわ怖スレ見てるからビビりになってる。」
What does モンスター娘のいる日常 mean? [duplicate]
What does モンロス mean?
When talking about English 文型, how to say “a sentence”? 文章?
Turning on the light
Japanese for dual flush toilet
'私は学生です' & '夜に部屋では電気をつけない' : 'は'　'では'
How can we determine the subject of 「彼{かれ}が来{こ}ないことを知{し}りませんでした。」?
What does (volitional form) + ったって+(potential form of same verb) mean?
Introducing yourself in Japanese when you have a Roman name?
What is the difference between 「進行」 and 「進歩」?
What does the phrase 「あんのかないのんか」 mean?
Listing places in Japanese and using particles afterwards
Where to check if a word is used with kanji or not? [closed]
Should you use は or が when you have a compound subject?
Transcribing Feuz
Difference between しては and nominalizer のは
What is the meaning of 「ため」 in the following sentence?
Meaning of トッツケ on a house plan
Trying to decipher a Kanji on a bad image source
Usage of 以前 here
南北銀行 (North-South Bank) meaning
Pronunciation of ~しつ
What are the differences between なさる and される?
Is が here a 格助 or 接助 element?
How to say “Please correct my sentences”?
Which conjugation is this 生きていこう?
What does “劣勢を受け止める” mean?
Can a sonkeigo verb be used with an inanimate subject? / 尊敬語は無生物主語に対して使えますか？
Which conjugation is this 進む → 進め
Translation doubt: 自分とは何でどこへ向かうべきか
Is 薬指 related to the Latin term “digitus medicinalis”?
Translation question: 信じ歩けば?
Turning a verb phrase into an adjective
what does “toko” in “ii toko desu” mean
Why should we say 応えられなくなってきて and not 応えられなくてきて?
Origin of this character: 體
How to politely inform other people of acceptable alternative ways of addressing you?
Past tense of i-adjective + past tense of verb
Nuance between いっとき and いちじ as a pronunciation of 一時
Meaning of the word 爆誕
θ波はどういう意味ですか？~What does θ波 mean?
なっ at the start of a sentence
How to translate 'subject' (of lesson) and 'teacher'? [closed]
Confused by apparent double-negative in literary context
Nuance of 楽しみにしとくね?
お世辞にも and quote
Difference between マップ and 地図
Phrase translation: 何を言い出すかと思えば
Direct and indirect quotes
Trouble understanding postponed quote
Is there a difference between 中位（ちゅうい） and 中位（ちゅうくらい）?
Other uses of the particle に in お兄ちゃんには見つからない
How do I say “x is y kilometres from z”?
同｛おな｝じ that means “same” is a noun but 違｛ちが｝う that means “differs” is a verb
Meaning of フッたん
Why is 上 used in 商業上の目的で?
When to use these plain Te-Forms?
Can someone explain how this massive sentence works
Can someone explain this sentence
Why is the particle に used between カツ and たべられない and what does 入った可能性 mean?
響: what is N5116?
What are appropriate contexts for saying “趣味悪い”?
Help translating とってもまずしくて明日食べるパンもありません
How do I read 初商業誌?
Why this negative form ends in く?
Difference between 避難所 and 避難場所
Is this sentence correct? 去年は日本へ行ったことがあります。
Lettered Bus Numbers
Is 動詞修飾副詞 a grammatical term?
Adverbial transformation in verbs
Other uses of the たら conditional
して行｛い｝かない versus しないで行｛い｝く
Found the expression 目が命 in a paperback I'm reading
Why does 七時 need に but 今日 does not?
Use of 旧字体 in Japanese names
What's the meaning of the く in 赤くありません?
What's the difference between あって vs ありまして?
What's the difference between に and を in these phrases?
Sentence ending in ～でさ
Meaning of 上を失えば & question about 烏合の集
when is ん pronounced as “m”?
What connotation does the ending -n to a Japanese female name have?
木 を 切り に VS 木 を 切る に in the ももたろう tale
History of Japanese “Vulgar” Vocabulary
How is まま used here?
Vocabulary doubts: 「眼の所が少し高くなっているが、［…］一文字に結んでいる。」
How to avoid repetitive usage of 面白い and 楽しい?
Do you also say 「もしもし」 on Skype?
Should I use とor という or something else in this phrase
How to say “How do you say~?”
じゃ意味がない / じゃNounがない
Octopus kanji: 章魚 vs 蛸 vs 鮹
Doubts regarding 方がより
is this sentence correct 会議は三時からでいらっしゃいます.?
Difference Between “何も” and “何でも”
What does 「フーホり」mean?
The meaning of 技術は習うものではなく盗むもの
Contractions in やんなっちゃう
Meaning of ハグレ (kanji unknown)
Understanding a sentence 〜声が誰のものか
Modifying nouns with question phrases
Present progressive tense of 覚える
What is the difference between 類義語, 類語, 同意語, シノニム?
The usage of だと and それなりに in this sentence
verb-ている in potential form やってられないよ
Meaning of 譲れん (譲れない)
“いまいち” vs “物足りない” meaning / usage?
How to say “He likes something” without using は?
Colloquial grammar question: …が出来たから…ってくれって言ってきたんだろうが！
コレ meaning in this sentence
What does this structure (～ + も + verb/adjective) mean?
Exact nuance between 方が、たら、えば and テ形 in this sentence
Why my book uses に in this sentence?
What's the difference among 送る, 乗せる and 連れていく
Counter for ordinal dates?
Is 方 read かた or ほう here?
Whats the meaning of しょせい
The Use of "の時” in This Sentence
Can the translation for “you're welcome” be “mū”?
Is there a difference between に and に対して?
Can the word もう be pronounced むう?
When is “私じゃ” used?
Is verb ending ない shortened to ん?
What do we say the base ingredient in Japanese?
What does ♢ mean on an assignment?
“お会いできる日を楽しみにしています”
Question about/with particles [closed]
Particle between city and prefecture?
Help with understanding a sentence
「ある」と「ない」は動詞か形容詞か…
Conflict among teachings of なら and ば
Is *domo arigato* considered formal?
Why is domo used also to say hello?
plain + とき + plain or polite?
Differences in meanings of interrogative words
Difference between Muromachi and Ashikaga
What is a grammatical terminology to describe the group of the refrain of two syllable words like pera-pera, don-don, iki-iki?
文の組み立て Question about word order
Difference between くらいなら ～ のほうがましだ and くらいなら ～ ほうがいい
Does remembering meanings in two languages help [closed]
四角と正方形はどう違うの？~(What's the difference between 四角 and 正方形?)
〜のです(か) in email
What is the meaning of 国の母?
Help with translating a certain sentence ending: ～なくしろ
How should I say “if you still want to meet me after all”
What is the difference between お手洗い and トイレ
～てあげます versus ～ていただきます
What does 元金成長型 mean in this sentence
What does やれ{HL}やれ{HL} “yare yare” mean?
Meaning of こんなところで眠ってる場合ではない
まだいたとはね meaning
About the words in format: ～がかり
Rule on vowel devoicing? [duplicate]
What does “itadakimashite” do in this case?
何 + te-form + も (何 by itself to mean “something”)
What does どくしんでハンサムだからね mean?
What's the reading for 今朝 in this sentence?
Is there an equivalent of 英会話 for the Japanese language?
What does “motatte” mean?
Is it ok to say 問題ない instead of 問題じゃない? Why?
Transitioning to Japanese kanji from Chinese [closed]
What conjugation of 願う is 願わくば, and what does it mean here?
What is 床下? (picture attached)
How is おい used?
Meaning of the phrase 「想像をはるかに上回る」
What is the significance of 如き in this conversation?
Apologizing with “sorry”
希代の剣豪の好敵手として祭り上げられた剣士を知る者など
Different nuances in meaning for なら sentences
Translation of a phrase for CV [closed]
What does であればこそ mean?
Question: Japanese scientific article on satoyama
Dictionary with high low pitch intonation reading? [closed]
What does（棒） as net slang mean?
How are “comfort women” referred to nowadays?
Is ダウンアンダー understood by non-Australian Japanese speakers?
「〜したことがある」 vs 「〜したことがあった」
素朴概念 = naive concept?
New Year's Resolution
Learning Japanese alphabet [closed]
How to use なきゃ correctly
Difference between ぞ and ぜ
Making an adverb a topic for a sentence 無碍には
What is meant by 本来はこちらから出向くの筋なのだろうが here?
Could there be an 'invisible' “should” in this sentence?
What does 血筋 refer to in this extract?
Why is there a ツ in 四ツ谷?
Meaning of 入って in this sentence
ている/ていた時 understanding [duplicate]
What does そんなところでいい mean here?
が in subordinate clauses
Use of `chan` between high school students
What does the particle at the end of なぜと申しますと mean?
How to say “Cultural Identity”
Is “断ったとは信じがたい” a nominalization?
A verb or noun for a 始発電車 arriving for passengers
Is my Hiragana good? [closed]
ない vs 無い: Negative ある vs adjective?
Is 片方 only used for things that come in twos?
ん in strange places
Meaning of 「これはこれで」, and the difference between it and 「それはそれとして」
What does が do in this sentence?
Is 株式会社 read as かぶしきがいしゃ or かぶしきかいしゃ?
Connective だって and use of せっかく
Difference between 土日 and 週末
昨週 - when is it used? (compared with 先週)
Help understanding the uses of 「とても」in this sentence
Usage of spaces in Japanese?
Which is better?　私は買いましょうか？ or 私が買いましょうか？
Is the layout of this text supposed to resemble a style of poem?
the meaning of いかをとる
How to parse long sentences
How do I interpret お釣りが来るほど？
とまではいかないまでも meaning
Translating 年相応 into English
Which form is 切り?
Difference between 会話、談話
How do I say “This is a derivative work. I am in no way affiliated with X company” in Japanese?
When to use 九 vs きゅう?
恐れ入ります correct “thank you” to use after customers make a purchase?
Is there a radiotelephony alphabet standard for kanji, similar to NATO phonetic alphabet (“alfa, bravo, charlie”)?
Understanding なんだか
Meaning of はなちゃああああああ in internet slang
What is the character related to this pun?
What does this keychain say? [closed]
How to say “Don't stroke his ego”?
Infinitive form + た or た form
Meaning of というか and 手伝って in this sentence
Marking questions in a story narration
How to ask if someone is ready
What does て form + すらいた mean?
Contraction of ～てるのか
分 in 今回は単行本第三巻予定分から
~できやすい and ~しやすい connotation
Adjective use of たかだか
自然から得られる生産に役立つ要素。 Parsing
Unknown word and strange use of えと
Meaning of triple particle (?) のはな
なったような vs なるような　Any differences in nuance?
Do native speakers think of prolonged vowels as one long vowel, or two vowel sounds following each other?
Difference between 喰う and 食う？
にとって as topic/subject marker and は as object marker?
I found よう all by itself. Is there any difference in the usual meaning?
だったら as an interjection
いAdjective. difference between くて and く
よろしくお願いします or ありがとうございます
English as a second language, Japanese as a third language -learning it in english, or mother language? [closed]
Is there such a thing as a て particle?
Why does も move in sentences involving だれも etc
「んだ」の使い方について質問させていただきます
Is this actually ごぬんくださーい, and does it mean “Excuse us!”?
Respectful terms for parents
“Hey Bro!” how to call out friends
Help understanding the grammar of this sentence
Meaning of phrase 「友情タッグで経験値一杯」
How to say that I've had an interest in the Japanese culture since x?
Question word ellipsis
Confusing use of と言えば
Any help connecting two sentences? (for subtitle creation)
跳び箱 as a synonym for a obstacle?
Possible use of isolated し?
Is this a real grammar structure のほうがverb-ていい
What on Earth is this kanji character?
Causative relative sentence [closed]
Use of ところ in this sentence [duplicate]
ではと - is this a particle?
How do I read 通常版?
Talking about Japanese food, why can 焼{や}き be as either a suffix or a prefix?
安らぎの人 translation into English
How do you call someone “Tryhard”?
Xとも言えるY and であるが故に at the end of a sentence
When to use Dono or Nan?
causative usage and に
Meaning/Breakdown of 答えの出しようのない疑問
覚せい剤 - why is it written with kana?
Is this indirect passive or potential?
Meaning of 身もフタもない
ちょっとしか---V negative potential
Is there a term that covers both wasei eigo and gairaigo?
Is it common for non-European words to share similar pronunciations between Japanese and other languages in East Asia?
Is this は contrastive?
Saying “try” in Japanese
Usage of の as nominalizer
double ては in a sentence
事がなければ meaning in this sentence
Are Japanese speakers likely to confuse “message” and “massage” in English?
What does ため do in this sentence?
What do Japanese say when they call their pet cats/dogs?
How do Japanese call their friend's sister or brother?
What is the katakana of STAR WARS?
Japanese wheel mortar
Verb followed by ばかりになる
When referring to in-laws using 義理, do you use the familial term relative to yourself or to your spouse?
About the surname Yos(h)ida
What does 「漢語」 mean in this sentence?
Expressing “the nth person to 〜”
Why is やりたい放題 used as opposed to やり放題?
Do 食べないです and 食べなかったです have the same level of politeness as 食べません and 食べませんでした have?
What is the difference between 兵隊、兵士 and 軍人
には with plain form of verb
Using the word “about”
How to say “My parents want me to be a doctor” in Japanese?
How do you “replace” second-person pronouns?
Why is the が particle being used with these adjectives
Unsure about this usage of か
When to use って or 言った
Most natural way to write sentences of the type “A verbs that B verbs that C verbs that…”
言ってるみたいに+conditional
Is there any way to input hentaigana into text documents?
What is やってけんのかな？
Help understanding how these clauses fit together
What would be the best katakana for this book title?
what does buri mean? [duplicate]
Meaning and validity of 雪ってる
「めく」の使い方、どのような場合に「めく」を使うのが自然ですか。
How to phrase “first semester in college”
Keeping track of the speaker/subject in written conversation
What does adding し to an adjective do? [duplicate]
Can someone help break down this sentence?
Does adverb come before or after the verb?
How to say “I don't know you well”
Meaning and usage of 運のツキ
What does 「学生さんなんですか」 mean? [duplicate]
When to use 頭の毛 and 髪
How to find alternative writings of a kanji in electronic form?
Is んでしょう（か） grammatical, and what does it mean?
Difference between 書かないようになった and 書かなくなった?
で vs が in 上手に話せます？
Difference between「と思います」and「かと思います」?
Use of テロ in 飯テロ
Meaning of 真であるとして
is 「合否の結果」 redundant?
Reading and usage of 「垂オます」
The grammar of てちょうどいい
The verb in いらしてください
目が覚める versus 起きる
what does this symbol mean? ⊂((・x・))⊃
Difficulties understanding なのだと
The meaning of 一応 in 一応褒めている
What is the meaning of 店頭分?
「私の緊張のあまり」 vs.「私は緊張のあまり」in this sentence?
How to interpret タチ in this sentence
たとえ-Continuative-たとしても
How to convey the best possible word in japanese for 'I want to clobber him'?
Help understanding these uses of 「取っぱらい」
meaning of word + 上にて
Basic conversation question
Does 韓国車 refer to the Korean Automotive Industry or to Korean cars in general?
What does たら do at the end of a sentence?
How to say that something is like something with ような
Meaning of じゃろ and じゃろう
Usage of …から参加し
What does によって mean in this sentence?
What is the difference between 仏 and 釈迦？
Difference between くださって and いただいて and when you should use it
Need help with 際
What is the function of particle に in this sentence? みんなお寺に名前を登録しなければなりませんでした。
…のではない…がある sentence structure
Grammar question: プロジェクトスタート当初の目標のひとつであった
Meaning of 様子を交える
Need help with grammar: “xxをきっかけにxxしたxxとのこと”
せず - What does it come from?
When do you use the o marker with kudasai (Please)
How does one make potential passive in Japanese?
連用形 used instead of regular 連体形 directly modifying nouns
“Pour your heart out” in Japanese [closed]
How to ask someone to repeat what they said [duplicate]
Attributive だろう
Correct form of address for a bartender, or itamae
The component 曷 and the kanjis 褐, 喝, 謁, 渇
Noun+とばかりに mean?
What does it mean when someone says -han after a person's name?
Change in self-address for emphasis or to express frustration or dissatisfaction
Is なくなく an emphatic negative expression (e.g. in 力なくなく)?
Na-adjectives before は
嘘ついてたんだ vs 嘘ついたんだ
Grammar behind adverbs + は
why does 手段を選ばない = will do anything?
What is the difference between 時に and 時は
what is the actual word looking similar to 戸感
meaning of １００歩譲って
Meaning of nounってとこ
Is　なにをうたがすきですか？　correct?
Use of かける (N5 question)
Meaning of phrase 「どちらがどうとかいう」
What is the meaning of ドリフ in this sentence [closed]
What does the word 「気がせんのや」mean?
お隣さんになって早々, 申し訳ないですうぅ~ means?
What is the meaning of Noun + なら
Was “not necessarily to Japan’s advantage” meant to be an understatement?
Why is the 「ようとして」 construct used here?
What does マナーもいっしょに「携帯」 mean?
Is it possible to make a V-causative-te construction?
What does the word 「っぴい」 mean?
Placement of adverbs
Location of pitch-accent on conjugated auxiliary verbs
Difference between 誤解 and 勘違い
What is 「ケステンGチンキ」 a reference to?
What is ～やまさりけん and what part of sentence is it used as?
I need help with an example sentence
How to parse ～なくたって?
Trouble interpreting に思う in その武具に思うことはいっぱいあるみたい
XをYという形に sentence
What do you need kanatype sensitivity for?
How to read 「！」 as a clock chime?
Is “Airman ga Taosenai” grammatical?
How would you say someone told you something?
国 - The 2 ways to pronounce
Help understanding 腸捻転エビ固めモミ手返し
What is the difference between とある and ある?
Difference between ままに and ままで?
How has Japanese kanji and kana usage changed since 1945?
What does ただ mean in this context, following a verb and before ひとり?
Is チェリーボーイ wasei-eigo?
Question about loan word スーパーヴァイジー
Is it bad practice to use “することができる” as opposed to just “できる”?
Meaning 'の場として'
Pattern in onyomi for middle Chinese -p and -ng finals
Is 私は本があなたをたすけよみます correct?
Help parsing a sentence with possibly embed relatives
飲食店が入る雑居ビル vs 飲食店が入った雑居ビル
“私には、セーラームーンを見るのを止めるための強い意志が欠けている。”
How to explain a dialog naturally to a friend
Difference between 友達出来た vs 友達を作った
Meaning of 「〜のと〜ので」
Meaning of sentences ending in の
What is the right translation for grade in the context of a course
The usage and meaning of the ending ～なんですけれども
Particle の following topic marker?
What is the purpose of the comma after the と in 異変と、その影に潜む陰謀を、彼はまだ知らない。
Are there differences between 言い辛い・言いにくい・言いがたい?
「というのである」 basically same as 「ということである」?
Are there some cases where みたす could be spelled as 充たす? 「充｛み｝たす」という書き方はどんな場合で使えるか？
Expressions of surprise おや　あれ　あら
A phrase for a capable person with a critical view of himself
Difference between [Noun]する vs [Noun]をする vs [Noun]だ
Word play: “Easy peasy” analog
How to understand this usage of 「〜て来た」?
Precisions about ほど, and particularly what quality ほどの refers to
Meaning of かって and general sense of this sentence
Adverb referring to previous verbs
Parenthetical Statements in Japanese
What is the difference between に関しての and に関する?
Why is しまいました needed here?
Why is the た in 手伝う voiced?
Verbal short form の for expressing the idea of doing a verb ＋ のほうが / より
“事故にでもあったのではあるまいか。” grammar help please? [duplicate]
Is it ever right to use ば conditional to mean 'when'?
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
What are the pitch-accent rules for compound nouns?
Ideas for translation of 演奏技術向上への一可能性
Meaning of 共催収入
Meaning of じわれができる
Does 美少女 sound somewhat ironic, humoristic, etc?
How to choose the reading of 埋{う}める and 埋{うず}める?
Does “私は山田さんが描きました。” make sense in Japanese?
As a foreigner with a Japanese name, what are the implications of writing my name in katakana or kanji?
The meaning of かたに in かたに預ける
The role of hiragana when there is a relevant kanji?
Why is there a small ッ in 完ッ全?
に as an indirect complement
Why is に used in 若者が元気に溢れている?
meaning of 歩けなくなっちゃって
第一木曜日 : Which Thursday of the month is it?
Postpositional or prepositional くらい
How would I explain to a Japanese that I like to hear their rolling “R”?
Understanding “鯖を読む”
Is 幼子 ever used nowadays?
Does は mean 'at least' in this sentence?
understanding the meaning of わけはない
Relative and passive and how to parse sentences
Questions regarding the pitch accent of 僕
Why is 未来 read as あした?
Need help with のが and のある in this sentence
Meaning of んな after verb in て form
Difference between ビーフ and 牛肉
What does the に do in 表情から察するに?
程度, 程,ぐらい differences, nuances
What's the difference between あれ and 彼女？
Usage of 契り when meaning destiny/fate/karma
Is it possible to use causative sentences to say “not to do”?
What is the function of both of the のか's in this sentence
Causative を and は, are they interchangable?
How would you say, “I am emailing you to confirm/remind you of the activity tomorrow”?
How is 納める used here?
Meaning of 降ってくる when talking about voice
What would be the most apt word in kanji, for “Animal world”?
Questions about 「とは」and 「思わなんだ」 [duplicate]
Trouble with もう二度と列車や車には乗らん
I have some questions about transitivity: 貯める and 貯まる
Is た形 required when using 自動詞 as an adjective?
もう used with 〜ている
Problems with 起こす and the suffix 還り
Which particle do I use to express using a writing instrument?
Missing nominaliser in this sentence?
What is the difference between 殊に and 特に?
Question with this sentence わたしはえをみるのがすきです
For what purposes is たろう used?
How to ask “Do you want to be …?” question?
Relative question
What does なんです mean in this sentence?
「」 don't seem to be 'quotation marks' in news article titles, what do they mean?
How many よろしくお願いします to say during job interview?
Is “初めてです、広島は。” ok in spoken Japanese?
Verb dictionary form+よう
Saying it's my first time in (a place)
Usage of くせに and わりに in the following sentence
The different nuances of wanting to go to do something
“native” Japanese words vs Chinese/international “imports”
Is “傷” a subset of “怪我”?
Repeated word puzzle – 庭には二羽鶏がいる
たり vs. て for multiple adjectives
What does “夢を売る” mean? sell a dream?
Meaning of しようとすることができる
How to say “do you have”
Confused in choosing でした or です in のは～だ grammar
Odd use of で in だめで
Meaning of “ねーし”
The difference between するには and する為には
てほしい usage with more than 2 people, particles に and が
Help with さすが大学に行っただけのことはある [duplicate]
Difference between ついでに and たびに in the following example
と followed by a comma
てえな attached to verb stem
Help for a translation [closed]
全く vs 全然 (formal / casual)
What's the meaning of 角刈り in this context?
How to tell よく (often) apart from よく (good)?
Is it possible to use 々 and co (ヽ、ゝ、…) even if the shortened part is from another word?
Use of んじゃない after verbs
What does しょっぽい mean?
Translation help with って
Trying to think of borrowed English words that parse “ti” as ティ or as チ。 [closed]
What is Japanese for the grammar term “verb base”?
Nuances with placement of time words
でありません(でない) vs ではありません(ではない) vs でもありません(でもない)
Use of object marker with no verb
Who is 本人 referring to in 本人には自覚は全くないんだがな
Is 何か an adverb?
What does やや書 indicate?
えらかない - strange conjugation of えらい
How to say “I bought this book for 1200 yen.” in Japanese?
Meaning of しなくていいやって
てほしい particle usage
what is the meaning of なの here
Help with “My little sister can't run this fast” in the style of ～こんなに～わけがない
What is the difference between 飲む and 呑む?
どうぞよろしくお願いします meaning
How are the traditional 5 elements in the Chinese doctrine of Five Agents pronounced in Japanese?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
How to say that you “learned a lot” by doing something
Difference in counters for spoons
How to say “Serving for # people”?
What is the difference between [担]{にな}う and [担]{かつ}ぐ?
Conditional inclination with ようと思ったら
Meaning of 「乗りこなす」　in this songtext
Where does the furigana split on 小路?
Is 立つ in 顔が立つ is always imperfective? If so why?
Combinatorical relative clauses
「〜ている」Sentence Translation
What is the kanji for 'intense game'? [closed]
How to express the phrase “overrated” or “over-…”
でさえ　すら in the same sentence
Causative, causative-passive and particles
機会点-Opportunities
-Tainda form - explanation please
How do I read 青水庵 as a name?
A quote from 星の王子様 (The Little Prince)
Meaning and use of やるほど
What does じゃな mean?
How would you say “for all I know” using 限り/限る in Japanese?
What is the phrase for “the amount of time for paid activities”?
Japanese special phrases for “study season” and “long holiday season following study season”
Why is the word「ござる」used in this sentence?
Confused in choosing 早い versus 速い
～て vs ～てから for sequencing activities
Can you suggest a method for learning readings of names? [closed]
Question about usage of 「のでは」
Usage of 知らないと思うけど
Describing a person by applying a modifier to their name 〜ような《名前》
Can anyone explain this exercise about のは and のが in Minna No Nihongo II?
Usage of で in the following sentence
Difference between にとって and として
What is the difference between 姿勢 vs 態勢 vs 体勢？
What's the difference between 一番星 and 最初の星?
Meaning of verb-てまで
Changing of diphthongs at the end of words to え in exclamations
Can I say “プロような英書き方”?
Parsing 何を考えているかすぐ解るような態度は改めたほうがいい
No question marker questions [duplicate]
Implicit Meanings/Interpretations of を
If I heard correctly かけずほど当てにならない, then was it 書けずほど?
Using もの at the end of a sentence
What is なっとらんかった?
Is a sentence like 彼がやったんだ past or present tense?
Japanese equivalent of the phrase “wrapped around your finger”?
How does “koe” mean “went over”?
社会主義体制下のソ連時代。Clarification on this sentence
Help understanding いいやって and いやだなって
What is the meaning of 両岸 in this context?
Is there a Japanese phrase equivalent to “Chopstick gene”?
What are all the possible meanings of 筆記{ひっき}の心{こころ}?
How many possible phonological forms could be represented by a randomly chosen single character?
Translating 鳴神の少し響みてさし曇り… etc
Unclear usage of ように
What is the significance of ココ and サ in emoji?
What's the difference between 気がする and ような気がする?
しとけ and sentence translation
What is the grammatical function of 好感度さえ in 好感度さえクリアしていれば? [duplicate]
How to parse 後継者としての責務も卒業するまで代理を立てられた
が and passive verb referring to modified noun
Is お needed before 誕生日おめでとう?
Japanese joke explanation, brushing teeth in a narrow home
Mapping 16 English tenses to Japanese tenses [closed]
“絶対について来ないでね。” as “Absolutely don't come/follow”
Using 嫌い and 嫌う
“広める” instead of “広まる” or “広められる” in this context?
What's the Japanese for 'er…' - a pause or uncertainty in a sentence?
What is the meaning of 結構もった方じゃないか
「この笑顔なくしていいの？」 on a board by the road (photo)
What is the meaning of 実質負担金額?
How is 下総国一の宮 pronounced?
Adverb followed by って
What is the opposite of 初心者?
Can わざわざ or わざと be used for oneself?
~あらんことを: Slight Variations and Idiomatic Degree
What is the implicit subject of 無断利用されています。?
96人も遅刻するような学校なんだな。- Confusing use of ような
Does 仕事があれば bear a notion of “if you pay me”?
Meaning of 座 in 口座
Need help translating a sentence [closed]
meaning of: ういっく
How is 'w' pronounced?
Meaning of そこまで言うか
The meaning of 来なんだ (a seemingly archaic form)
Is this a valid sentence? [closed]
気力がつきかけていた: What meaning does かける have here? And which つき is this?
Counter for islands?
Rules or criteria for 連濁: Voiced or unvoiced syllables in compound words
How to decide whether to read 「昨夜」 as 「さくや」 or「 ゆうべ」?
What are the meanings of 心配の種になる and ゆとりを与える?
How do adverbs denoting amounts such as たくさん and ちょっと work?
Should I use 「なすぎる」 or 「なさすぎる」?
Different ways to “try”
つけておいてください　translation
Isn't there something wrong in this sentence? Does 対抗できずに create semantic conflict?
V+て なかろうと　meaning
Hearing いらっしゃいませ when leaving the building. Why?
“Yon” vs. “Shi” in school names
What does つらり mean?
Can I make a noun from a の adjective in general?
Help me understand this sentence about film
In what contexts can “始{はじ}める” be an intransitive verb?
What is the difference between [為替]{かわせ} and 両｛りょう｝替｛がえ｝?
Word request: Agreeing in a conversation
What does がんばっぺ mean?
Can I use 印象 to talk about something the subject does not have personal experience with, but has an opinion about?
Why is みつぎもの written 賜ぎ物 instead of 貢ぎ物 in this comic?
に and verbs that take it with もらう
だと, にと particle doubts
Preparing for a fight in Osaka (dialectal んやったなぁ)
ような without a noun following it
Why does the sentence combination 「situation。 explanation から。」sound awkward?
Modifying individual nouns in の strings
The use of へ and に in regards to time
ぐわん: Is this a word? Drunken speech in manga
Word order/splitting the phrase 都合がつかず (possible mistake)
Why is も used twice in this sentence?
Difference between 苗字 and 家名?
Usage of ようにだそうだ
Different usages of 出てくれる
How to parse 親も辞書を買ってやったかいがあるってもんだ
Difference between 日 and 一日
How to understand this sentence about film reviews in Japanese newspapers?
Multiple が in the same sentence
率直に and 正直に、how do they differ?
What does ようとする do here?
What is うろついとる？
What does ても＋いかん do?
「猫種」「愛猫」などの読み方について
Writing a birthday letter to a friend
What does the phrase 「やった人」 really mean?
Origin of the word 烏有
Does ようとした always mean failure to try doing something?
Is “背中に嫌な汗を掻いた” an idiomatic phrase?
What is the common perception of 藪医者? Or how to tackle with amiguity here?
Why would Russian хорошо [xoroʂo] be borrowed as ハラショー?
Confused about the meaning of these nicknames
Mystery about にく (肉) in kanji (漢字)
Why is 迎えに来る correct?
Can 自身 be used to refer to 2 people in the same sentence?
Reading and meaning of 上御道田
How do 行く and 来る *really* work?
What's the difference between 同然 and 同様?
Can tokidoki only be used in a negative sentence?
百年 - ヒャクネン or モモトセ
Meaning of こともあるもんです
油断させる, who is being careless/unprepared?
“Engineered” is a difficult word to translate
The meaning and tense of できるはず in this passage
What does てくんない ending on a verb mean?
Can I use quotation particle 「と」with noun?
どう言い訳したものか. Sentence translation difficulties
What is 〜からです and when is it used? How does it differ from 〜ですから and 〜んです?
How would you say “doing something in preparation for something else”?
How do you call different methods for writing numbers (notations)?
Meaning of ようす in definitions
Help on Adjective Conjugation
Can I explain the idea behind a Velcro tape using the name of these plant seeds? (photo)
柄にもない and its connotations
Tokyo Ghoul “Unravel” Translation
What is the definition of “嫁”?
Can かまってちゃん be used for males?
自分の小市民ぶり meaning [closed]
What does げ mean as a suffix? [duplicate]
Were Japanese names ever anglicised?
Connotations behind 可愛げのない態度?
Why is を used with passive form here?
Meaning of うち in “無意識のうちの行動なのだろう”
What does 帰りに寄ってください mean?
Is the kanji in this scene a mistake or some kind of joke?
Meaning of 修士論文として提出しました論文を遅らせて頂きます
Expression for a bad photograph
Does 無理な戦 directly indicate a “lost war”?
Meaning of プレイ in this context?
Understanding「汲ませて」 and 「にっぷん」, assuming that is what was said
とか and など in same sentence
Conditional form of future progressive
What sound symbolism related to masturbation exist ?
Verb Dictionary form+ よう
What is the meaning of the expression “コツがいったり”?
How translators translate polite Japanese conversation?
「食べていると話す」 Can this have two meanings?
Is the expression 「だってある」 common?
How much buzz is there in 式 of 手打ち式 udon noodles?
連用形 of 「だ」 - difference between 「だっ」「で」「に」
How shall I understand this short text?
いいの? What does it mean?
だけでなく and だけじゃなくて
Does the Japanese language have an American variant?
How does the の work in 「日本人の知らない日本語」?
Before Japanese adopted Arabic numerals, can 十分 mean “10 minutes” other than “enough”?
Difference between かたがた and がてら
Use of -です／-ます in the middle of a complex sentence
The origin of “HN”
What does なんていうか mean in this sentence
Can the phrase 不条理劇 “a theatre of absurd” be used figuratively in Japanese?
Na-adjective in attributive form before という?
is it okay to regularly say 気をつけてください to someone departing out?
What does としか mean in this sentence?
Negative volitional+と
Can I omit 「の」and 「もの」in this sentence?
Can someone help break down それこそ〜くらいには?
Would a phrase 人の跡を求める be understood without a reference to Basho?
「わからない事は聞くのよ」What makes this imperative?
How does one say “I need a place to stay”?
What does verb + くなる imply or mean?
テレビ台 vs テレビ to refer to the physical TV?
A department in a company where unproductive employees are transferred to instead of being fired
The “違います” in the phrase “やる気が違います”
「何言わせんのよ」＝「何言わせるのよ」？
What is this script called?
Unsure of this sentence; lack of verb is throwing me off here
Difference between ～だろうと and ～でも
Are “と” and “から” equal when they mean “from”?
~んだよなぁ What general meaning/feeling does this give?
「電気の町」秋葉原は、最近「オタクの町」だとも言われている。
What is the best word for 'may not be attacked'?
Meaning of 女絡み?
What does 皆まで mean?
How is “と” being used in these two sentences?
Can さ be added to nouns?
What is the nuance of someone pointing at you with the pronoun あの人?
What's the difference between 完成 and 完了?
What is the difference between 各 and 毎{ごと}?
Ending sentences with the て form
Why is the phrase ご連絡申しあげます linguistially correct?
Using 〜てある as a future tense?
What should “Find. Attack. Exterminate” be in Japanese?
How do you use ”～じゃんよ。” and what exactly does it mean?
Looking for meaning of 入道雲
meaning of ちゃった verb ending
ための usage in this sentence
What does とする do in this sentence?
What is the difference between 頃 and とき?
Meaning of 私は　ひらがなが　書けるように　なりました
Is there a noun for a “destination line” when changing trains?
Is 「どこにもありません。」the same as 「どこもではありません。」?
Meaning of にまで?
Is there a Japanese equivalent to the phrase, “when in Rome”?
What does “fūtsu” mean?
What does えんやらやっと mean?
Shorter Causative Form Popularity
Use of verb ます-stem when て-form seems possible
「想い人」 and 「恋人」?
What is the difference between あと、うしろ and のちほど?
What is the literal context of 御手 in this instance?
Particle に when related to state and how to recognize a verb as a state
The meaning of 段階で揉める
Why is こ〜 used towards 2nd person in derogatory speech?
as mentioned … to the right?
Why is 電話（でんわ）in hiragana? [closed]
What does 少々疲れます mean in this case?
What's the counter for seasons?
Can まさにかわいい be used to say “very cute”?
私 Origin / Etymology?
When spoken casually, how different do 「た」 and 「だ」 in 「頂きます」 sound to native speakers?
What is it about ～まして?
is there any difference between せめて and 少なくとも?
先生がおっしゃるように、言葉は毎日勉強しなければ上手にならないと思います。
What does おらん mean?
structure of 忘れちゃうといけないからメモしといたのにそのメモをなくしちゃった。
Can particle で be used for means be used with people?
What kind of script is it? (photo attached)
How to use “待つ” in the indirect passive?
Meaning of 事実としてそう、と言われたら納得せざるを得ない
はずもない、はずはない、はずがない. Difference and meaning
Native usage of けど
The meaning of the 戟 kanji in the context of 食戟
Grammar behind a train transfer announcement
たる? What form is this?
“I just ate a few minutes ago”
What is the difference between 売る and 販売する?
Meaning of phrase 「古く懐かしい歌のように、傍にいてほしい」
Differences between the various readings of 描く and 画く
終了 and 終わり, is there a difference?
a japanese equivalent to the english expression: 'enjoy'
sentence patterns in colloquial vs formal
Personal name contractions and bad connotations - いず as a contraction of 泉 (いずみ)
what is the difference between 気にする, 気になる and 気にかかる?
ってば and もう: not sure how to use these in a sentence
「スケジュール感をすり合わせましょう」 - what exactly are we going to discuss?
How do you replace 「お悔やみ」 in condolences to a Japanese Christian?
Seemingly redundant 帰る in 「今日、帰りに買って帰ります」
How do you say “How am I supposed to X”?
What word is 咲かそう an inflection of?
Japanese て form with いる verb groups
Etymology of 姪 and 甥
Difference between 丸 and 輪 for “circle”
Appropriate word and kanji for 'caller'
How do you politely ask permission to deviate from received instructions?
When do I use all the words meaning “song”?
"社長に議長に田中氏を任命された” is ambiguous?
How to say “one of ten people …” in Japanese?
Is this a good way to politely refuse to publish an “abstract” option via e-mail? / 丁寧にメールで要旨原稿を掲載することを断る
Japanese for “Hoyaku matsuri”
病む in actual usage
水 - pronounce choice between 水{すい} and 水{みず}
What is the difference between 石{いし}、岩{いわ} and 岩石{がんせき}?
Meaning of this kanji compound: 入植用合成戦術個体
Question about directions and particles
What does そこまでのもの mean here?
Help me to understand this usage of 「ならば」
Difference between ば and たら in this example
Meaning of 変なテンション
What does the word 「なりそこなった」 mean?
Is the 300 yen price for a “shuin” stamp linguistically related to お参り?
How to shorten conjugations of “must” forms without sounding girly?
How to express the concept of there being too much?
Is the way I'm writing this correct, and is there a better way of writing it?
How to say “started to do something”?
落としちまった - what form is this?
Meaning of 再生の日
How to tell whether a building is 長屋【ながや】建{だて} or 共同{きょうどう}住宅{じゅうたく}
Sentence ending で
colloquial conversations [closed]
Is it rude to ask a Japanese person using keigo to speak less formally? How to do it politely? [closed]
おこの沙汰だ - how should we translate it?
Almost similar looking sentences with and without に particle
Grammatical construction「placeはsubplace、story」 as an introduction
Stroke recognition in this kanji?
たくさん vs. 多く vs. 多い when used on verbs?
Can directional particles be used with 見る?
上の+number - how should we translate it?
Using location words with Subject/topic markers
Meaning of いかんしょ in following sentence
Function of 「masu-stem」＋よる in Kansai-ben
What does で do at the end of the first sentence?
Usage of 東西南北 and 春夏秋冬?
Which is more natural? ボディー vs ボディ
Can 法王（ほうおう） mean anyone besides the Pope?
Meaning of 高2くらいまで
How do you respond when someone knocks on the toilet door?
How to address and greet Japanese people in an english email [closed]
Translating 鳴神の少し響みてさし曇り… etc
遊びます　vs　遊べます - 'be' meaning “you can”?
～られる connotations
Role of 時に in 暗殺は勉強の妨げにならない時にと言ったはずです
What does exactly does さま mean in dictionary definitions?
To marry OR Marriage? Japanese と in context
ありっちゃあり meaning?
Polite form of って in 「なになに」って何？
Keigo form of ~てみる
もらわれていくの grammar
What is せる followed by suru-verbs?
Translation question regarding 「ほどに」
では vs でも, vs じゃ what is the difference?
これらの研究の課題として4点挙げられる　ー＞ having problems understanding
Can そばかす be used to describe a pattern on dog face?
Meaning of ある in this sentence
Is 〜たち used for groups of only two people?
Meaning of 「この調子で頑張って」
Function of 反対に in this sentence
How to say, “I've been living in America for 9 months” (and still am)?
Why can の and が both mark subjects in relative clauses?
“なし” used for both animate and inanimate things?
Cheering Japanese (volleyball) team (ゴーリゴーリ)
Is this も of concession? いきなり言われても分からない！
How does かたじけなや differ from regular かたじけない?
Meaning of トルネル is actually misspelling of トンネル? [closed]
About an ambiguous line in 「東京日和」, a song by Komatsu Miho
What does 「な」 in 「降りなよ」 mean in this context?
Can I use といいですね in this situation? “I hope you haven't fallen ill again”
What nuance does っち give in "暑っちぃ”？
Difference between using -ba or -ra form and と for conditionals?
Can you help me to understand how という is used?
Does “こちらのテーブルをお使いいただけます。” mean “I can use the table, and you cannot?”
The correct reading for 血啜の獣斧 and 約束されざる守護の車輪チ
What is the difference between「ものなら」 and 「(の)なら」?
How is を used here?
Is there any practical difference between しばらく and しばらくの間?
Constructing phrase with “During”
Using から to link two sentences
How does しばらく work with ていない?
Japanese コ上 meaning in English
Why “お食事の際は、…” instead of “ご飯を食べる際は、…”?
Can you nominalise a verb for specific subjects by adding a noun after the verb in ている form?
Using て form to connect two activities
What does「飛んじまいそうです」 mean?
Who is receiving the benefit in this sentence?
Are Japanese translations for “Pearl Harbor” ever used metaphorically?
Can the English suffix “-zilla” be translated back into Japanese?
I need help identifying two words from this song [closed]
Are 「〜のは欲しい」 and 「〜のは出来る」 valid alternatives to 「〜たい」and 「られる」?
How to read this kanji?
実践 and 実戦 in exercises
What does “もんじゃない” mean?
Why do people romanize 五兵衛 as “gohei” instead of “gohee”?
How can I translate this? すべてかけて抱きしめてみせるよ
What is the meaning of ～ないでいると～
Usage of ”し” particle
How to respond to ありがとう?
How to say things must be done, but in the past tense?
～場合、 vs 場合は vs 場合には
No versus not in Japanese [closed]
いい versus よい? When do you use which?
What is the purpose of か in this sentence?
How do you politely apologize to a professor for unintentional rudeness?
Difference between 事業, 企業, and 会社?
The grammar of “taking a shower”?
もらう level of politeness
How do you express “the person I did something to”?
How do you say “using X as a Y”?
What's the meaning of nagara and when is it used?
How would you say “I like sth/sb because of [that reason]” in Japanese?
What is the difference between 殺{さつ}人{じん} and 殺{さつ}害{がい}?
If 'little girl' is 「少女」, then why is 'little boy' 「少年」?
What is the difference between いい and きれいな?
Difference between は and が [duplicate]
Is it okay to use つ counting for everything?
When do you mark きょう or other similar relative time expressions with は
What is the origin of the term “extended predicate” and are there alternative terms?
How does [ ɕ ] ( し) differ from [ ʃ ] (“she”)?
Usage of 合える with verb stems
Syntax of くびきを共にする
What does にございます mean in this line?
Is knowing Kanji vital? [closed]
What do 「はな」 and 「いうとな」 mean?
言え used both as negative and positive imperative
Dictionary definition of multiple words with identical pronunciation but different kanji
What's the difference between 去年 and 昨年?
When/why did 電話する replace 電話をかける?
To learn English vocabulary, I ate a dictionary page-by-page
Meaning of もう一度やり直す?
Japanese novels 上・下
How can one stop “去年【きょねん】教職【きょうしょく】” from looking like a weird 4 kanji compound?
Meaning of 散斎条 in this context?
Is there any phonetic rule behind readings 馬場{ばば} and 馬場{ばんば}?
Voiced stops pronounced as their unaspirated voiceless counterparts
What's the meaning of ぴっと。
How is 置く used here?
What does the word 「部下となし」 mean?
Distinguishing between homophones in everyday speech
Are Japanese terms for the United States and the Soviet Union likely to be confused by native speakers of Japanese?
The proper use of ご確認ください [closed]
The kanji 一 in 神の一手
What does さらせ do?
What is the meaning of the suffix 之助?
Email greeting for a teacher I've never met
[六月目]{むつきめ} meaning? [closed]
What is the difference between は and を?
Vocabulary related to bid rigging
Difference between また明日 and では明日?
“人物” vs. “性格” vs. “人柄”?
Use of なんか followed by possessive の
A quick question about funny sexuality-related words
Difference between 劇場{げきじょう} and 演劇{えんげき}
かきます（to write) when used with the particle に
can i say “四者択一の問題”?
Where do sentences begin and end? [closed]
自分 and 自身, what's the difference
Using 旨 where こと could be used a well
Dictionary form of verb followed by に
How do you say (someone) has (object)?
A more colloquial way of comparing A and B than the A のほうがBよりXです pattern?
Help understanding this pun
Difference between passive voice and causative-passive form
What do 「やっと」 and 「うせにゃ」 mean?
The difference between 面会 and 対面
Difference between 俺物語 and 俺の物語
Some precisions about the nuance of ちゃんと
Help understanding と in this sentence
How can I produce Japanese quotation marks?
How do I construct “going back to [verb]” type of sentence?
Why does this する verb take に?
Is the word 野次馬 offensive?
The meaning of そうなる in this context
Explanatory particle「の」 comes from 「ので」?
Can I use 罪を着せる to describe actions before a crime was committed?
What is this descriptor of a bag? [closed]
How do I write “Let us not watch Titanic,”?
How can I say “Flash-forward”?
What is the proper use case for コンペ先?
沈く　or　沈む？ “The rock will sink.”
Constructing sentence with passive verb
the meaning of なりに in わからないなりに
Another question about ね
How to say “The woman heard that I passed the test”?
Is “腹違いの兄” considered a slur?
Latin characters in Japanese?
Why would the Japanese transliteration from Greek Χριστος be spelled as ハリストス instead of キリストス?
「[況]{いわん}や」 and 「[況]{ま}して」 usages
Should I use honorifics to say (言う 'iu') for subordinate clauses?
What's the difference between 段階 and 階段?
When to use 選る/選ぶ?
need help making sense of 後半の二話
How to understand when adverb modifies another adverb and when verb?
Question about ね
What is the meaning of 一点で?
Why are these particles used here?
Why is Eden written as エデン in Japanese?
What word that resembles “teikkai” might refer to “the provenance of a food”?
How does past tense work with なら?
Is this sentence indirect passive?
How can I say, “please let me give you an update ”?
「上のごとく」対「上述」：現在では「〜のごとく」は使わないほうがいいですか。
How are similar-looking words (e.g. names of medications) distinguished?
“お調べいただいた上、” vs. “お調べいただき、…”
を vs で in these sentences
What is the correct 'to wear' verb for body weights?
Difference between 鳥肉 and 鶏肉
What is the meaning of the expression “異質の危険”?
What does “扎し魔神” mean in this epiphet?
What function does に serve in this sentence?
Can あります be used to say: “I have to do X on a certain day”?
Detail on the usage of 婚儀 to refer to a spousal relationship?
possibly wrong usage of 〜ば〜た in grammar book
Is kuzushiji considered archaic?
What distinguishes 人情 from 人性?
How to create 'although' sentences in Japanese
Why do some transitive verbs take に instead of を?
わたし は あまり はやい おきません Is this correct?
What does volitional form + っと mean?
Does the best translation of this sentence require causative-passive?
Difference between 向かう, 向く, 向ける
Couple of classical Japanese questions
行く when comparing age
What does いっぺんシメる mean exactly?
Puzzling use of progressive form
Having trouble with this sentence and how to figure out the exact meaning of compound words?
The proper way to use でも
Why is デート read deito instead of deeto?
What is the difference between 収める and 納める?
How is “おらず” used in the following sentence?
Meaning of 銀星4型 in this sentence
Parsing the pattern “[noun] を [verb]、また [noun] のため”
Can you use Adjective + たって?
How do I parse 正当に行うことができるものとして与えられている能力
How does the passive form of “to invite” work?
What does か + と do in this sentence?
Asking a question with “da” and “datta”
ni vs te form to express continuity/reason
“After I do [x], I do [y]”?
Politely giving a reason for coming to the office late
Why use ん here?
What are the meanings of the words 「えぐりこむ」and「べし」?
Are most kanji characters morphemes?
音読み for 箱 - word examples
Do both “どっかの男” and “ある男” equally effect an indefinite article kind of meaning?
How did we get “Foreign Carrot Regime”?
Understanding 生きていて～
What the grammar/syntax of 御来駕被成下度奉懇願候?
Often go to do something
Use of 時{とき} in the following sentences
必要{ひつよう} vs 要{い}ります
Does Xから modify Yの here?
連用修飾語 with で particle
How to read 資格外活動許可?
Modifying 形容動詞 (ナ adjectives) with verb phrases
“仕事は大変だけど元気だよー” Missing adjective or is it correct?
Sentence Ending て form
Etymology of 天地無用
Help me understand 過去の蓄積 and 面白いと思ってきたもの
If 日本語する is not ok, why is 日本語できる ok?
Meaning of 何によらず
What to say when answering the phone
What does the は in this sentence do?
How to ask to “correct me if I'm wrong”
Spaces in children's books
The Kanji for ありがとうございます
What is the meaning of と here?
Can the possessive の particle be used like this? あの かさ は だれ の ですか
What does volitional + と mean?
What does ～たでえ mean?
Decimal points and sound change of counters
What do these sentences mean? [closed]
What is the difference between 就職 and 求職?
人前｛ひとまえ｝ and 人前｛にんまえ｝
Translation question on part of a lullaby
Meaning of particle で
What are the ways to say “endure austerity”?
た＋ではないか　or た＋のではないか can someone enlighten me?
Japanese introduction speech help for an English Teacher [closed]
Why can story writers use くれる when describing a third person?
= sign in a katakana name
Is it true that we cannot say the feeling of a third person using たい, ほしい, 楽しい?
Meaning of する verb in 「その少女は小さい口元をしている」
Indicating a lack of surprise
Difference between “地主” and “家主”, and their relationship with 不動産屋？
Question about の
Difference between 少し{すこし} and 少ない{すくない}
Specifying location: Do you use ga/wa and does the word order matter?
Meaning of も in the following sentence
Is よう used for first person or second person imperatives?
What really is 人身事故?
What's the difference between 消える and 消え失せる?
Do Japanese stative verbs have the inchoative aspect?
Uncertain about なにも
Meaning 「～と思う」 at the end of a sentence
(をする) and (がする). Meanings and Uses
Why does 出る accepts を although it is an intransitive verb?
が and けど at end of a sentence
A bunch of questions about ところ
Three conflicting interpretations of “ことになりそう”
Topic particle after “expression of time”
What does 間違っていたら、修正してください mean, particularly ～ていたら?
Are ”見やる“ and ”見すえる" near perfect antonyms?
What does the エセ in エセ感動 mean?
Was クリスマスケーキ used metaphorically about women?
What does ところ do here? [duplicate]
What is the meaning of へりくだった態度?
How does まで work in ～なまでの／～なまでに?
How should I read the Kanji 「受」　in the word　「赤外線受発光部」?
Is there a difference between あまり食べ過ぎる and 食べ過ぎる?
How to say “Can I take a picture of / with you?”
What does (ry mean?
How to translate まさか with this context- disbelief or surprise?
Does indirect passive allow for the を in “四方を海に囲まれる”
番目に～　versus　番目の～
て形 to express 原因・理由, as opposed to から
Usage of “六日目”, “七日目”, “八日目”, etc.?
Conjunction after verb in dictionary form
What kind of ~~~ is it?
Why isn't 日本料理 written as 日本の料理?
「一緒なように」は不自然かどうか
たくさんの本を読んで versus 本をたくさん読んで
Could someone please check my translation of these lyrics? [closed]
Use of くれる with 信じる
What is the name for an uppercut (scooping punch) in Japanese?
“Too [adj] to [verb]” structure
Help with identifying a character [closed]
The meaning of “ところ” in context
“私が知っている人” or “私の知っている人”?
ございます - Humble or neutral?
Difference between 完成させる and 完成する (transitive usage only)
Confusion regarding writing a word in Kanji and Katakana
How do people in Japan count with their fingers?
Pronunciation of 開いて question
The phrase うんやらかんやら?
時代 and 時 difference
Why does this question use でしょう?
Does “入ってみたい家庭” this mean enter the family specifically or enter the clan?
What does the phrase 「やのう」 mean?
Can その（其の）X be used without X previously being referenced?
Use of 差し込む to describe the sun
こいつ　そいつ　あいつ vs こやつ　そやつ　あやつ
What does the に in 見るに全員が全員 do?
What's the difference between arimasu and desu (when referring to location)?
Ambiguity in giving suggesting and asking for suggestions?
What does お元気にお過ごしですか mean?
The word いや - gender?
Katakana that I can't get right
Difference between 交替 and 交代
Learning, where to start? [closed]
What are the meanings of ました, ます, and ません?
Reason for placing a comma between the subject and verb in this simple independent clause?
What phonetic shorthands (like 〼, 〆) are there in Japanese?
Meaning of “日にち会うかな？”
Xとした usage and grammar?
Meaning of 考える and how to use
～か　～かどうか　相対テンスの質問
Should hibakusha be written in kanji or kana? [closed]
Why としては instead of として
What does the phrase 「ところまでいくまで」 mean?
What are the differences between nouns created by renyoukei and the formal noun 「の」?
What does the phrase 「こうなりゃ」 mean? [duplicate]
Is it possible to change です to でした in ～んです grammar?
What is the difference between に限って and だけ?
Why can we use の after へ and から?
The difference among ずに、ず、ないで、なくて
The various uses of いちいち？
When to use 従え or 従い?
Has the average native Japanese speaker heard of Hepburn romaji?
How to say “If I can be”?
Is this でも or で＋も?
How to read 向う?
上手ではありません or 上手じゃありません
If も means “also” in a positive sentence, does でも mean “neither” in a negative sentence?
「そ、そうか。大変だな。」 誰が？
What does 「まさかそれが、」 mean at the beginning of this sentence?
With context that it is getting dark, why say “日が暮れる” instead of just “暮れる”?
Is 甘じている a typo? (example sentence)
How common is the practice of writing わたし in kana and わたくし in kanji?
てはin this sentence
How do I know if kanjis side by side like the one in this sentence is a name 美鶴木夜石は怖がらない?
What is the semantic difference between 積む{つむ} and 載せる{のせる} when loading stuff
Pronunciation of ∞ used in Japanese text
Is there a difference between 費用 and 支出?
Japanese counter for exercise repetitions
必要だ　必要とする　必要がある　要る - difference
The usage of ので etc to leave sentences “hanging”
いくつになったら in this sentence
Younger uncles and aunts
How is the の used in the sentence 願いの叶う家? [duplicate]
How to turn down a job offer
How to ask if someone has to do something
What does それ refer to in それでいい in this exchange?
Is anything implied, but not written, in this nominalization “遠くを見つめる”?
どのような and a particle soup
What is the meaning of について and を問われて here?
Why can an intransitive verb have a passive meaning in Japanese?
Word order of actions when using nagara (while)?
Meaning of やる stem in this sentence
Meaning of 今日も一日？
Why is the “-masen” form used to convey the meaning of negative present perfect here?
Having troubles understanding aspect in Japanese (unclear word choice in this sentence written by native)
What meaning does とこ have in this sentence?
How Is つ/ツ origin 川?
Do you really have to say “かれ” (3rd person pronoun) here?
最も有名なのがウーロン茶で : What is the usage of なの here? [duplicate]
Origin of the kanji for 叶う
であるので and であるのだ vs なので and なのだ
呼んでいたのが and　呼んでいるのが which is right?
What does 背後に流れていく視界 mean here?
How do you say the language of instruction is in Japanese or if something is taught in Japanese?
How would you translate 常に思念工夫せよ?
What does に do in this sentence?
Meaning of 増える in this sentence
Meaning of だまって置いてきちゃお
The nasal allophones of /g/
Please tell me how to use Japanese 終助詞 の and だ
How to compare the ages of people in Japanese?
What to say if you want to comfort your superior who is sick?
I assume this means next episode number 6 “第 六話”
How are 憧れる and 憬れる different?
Gendered usage of 素敵
How to explain the use of the -te form in “takasugite kaemasen”?
Must a relative clause with な adjective be ended with な rather than だ?
What dialects change ます into やす?
The grammar of “虎から食べられた” and “虎に食べられた”?
The use of 「ん」 in 「どうしたんですか」 [duplicate]
How to say “I'm going to spank you if…”?
What's the difference between 早い and 早め?
Where can I find full katakana combinations list? [closed]
Can なっている represent an ongoing change as well as a resultant (completed) change?
Is there any significant difference in meaning between 便利な安い物 and 便利で安い物?
Difference between “前々から” and “昔から”?
How to choose between 取る and 受け取る
When and why use という/ということ
What does the word 「どいとれっ」 mean?
Is there a traditional Japanese kana song or otherwise how are babies familiarised with kana?
Need help understanding causative and passive form: 外国人に質問を聞かれたが、答えられなかった。
How would you translate “新聞の民主性”?
What is the word to convey the same meaning as the replacement money?
What does the word 「おけっ」 mean?
How do I say “salmon hand roll”?
What does the word 「よっとな！」　mean?
Understanding この場合〜なんだろうけど
How to approximate the phrase “bring to life”
Why does this sentence use と here?
Can を be used when asking for how many of an object?
A sentence that must consist of 終わられる, しまう, and よう
What is the meaning of 「こわあてかなわんで」?
A word for 'clothed' or 'decent'?
mochiron or mochirong
why translate to「周囲の林が暗くなっている」?
conditionals: “…といったら、…” vs. “…というなら、…”?
Need help with translating 今更聞くのもアレなんだけど
Difference between passive form and てある
The Tohoku use of だ
What is the grammar of “ごく” in “ごくかすか” mean?
Jlpt/n5q5: 弟は部屋◯掃除をしました。◯: の versus に option
“on a scale of 1 to 10”?
“to fight” in this context?
Understanding why the sentence sounds strange
How do you say “beware the cats” in Japanese?
Meaning of それと in this context
What is “slatwall shelving” in Japanese?
How to situationally respond to 「お元気ですか」?
What is the difference between 得意 and 上手?
Breakdown of どうなってる
What does いくつか mean in the phrase いくつかの種類?
～く form of i-adjectives
おる in honorific contexts
“Unfindable” character in song
comparing quantities
What does 「やりい」 mean?
What does 「例によって例のごとくや」 mean?
Use of the particle を/に indicating target of an action - animate vs inanimate?
Is this translation correct? Or is it saying “Even with that, we can't do this” instead of “Without that, we can't do this”?
Is “暴走する” accurately translated as “Out of control” or a synonym of such, in this context?
には in this context
Farewell message - 悔しさをバネに
Difference between car 損保 and 車両保険
When did the word 「女性観」 come into standard usage? Is it a more politically-correct form of 「婦人観」?
山口さんはアメリカに行くことにした Question [duplicate]
How can you express to the creator that you enjoyed a book/performance/album?
Relative clauses targeting different parts
Can 作る mean “buy”?
Is there an order of adjectives in Japanese?
What kanji is used to write かん in 会話かん?
Is there a Japanese word or phrase for the chemistry in a relationship?
Use of 時 with different verb conjugations
What's the difference between the kanji forms for わかる?
How does this relative clause work?
What does 「て」 mean in 「読んでて」 (te-form + て)?
The word for “season” (US) or “series” (UK)?
Kanji or kana in お待ちください
Alternative word to “お[巡]{まわ}りさん”? [duplicate]
What does a 交番 look like? [closed]
Verb in ている form ends with しまう
A different way to join i-adjectives
Heisig story #30 (Nightbreak) 旦, shouldn't it mean “daybreak” instead?
Is へ and に interchangeable in these cases?
Expressing the concept of “instead”
Sentences ending in て
How has japanese writing changed in the last century? [closed]
Usage of ～を好き outside of embedded clauses
Difference between 月曜 and 月曜日
Can you transform “[wanter]-wa [wanted thing]-ga hoshii” to “[wanter]-ni [wanted thing]-ga hoshii”? Or anything else?
Is the Kansai あかん a negated verb?
Does this sentence have a good or bad meaning?
'nihongo ga wakarimasen' vs 'nihongo wo hanashimasen' ga and wo usage?
How to parse the following long announcement?
proper usage of 出かける
What is the Japanese term for putting an arm around another's shoulder?
Can't understand なら usage in this context
Usage of ひゃっほーい?
Which is the difference of meaning beetween 業 and 行?
What does とくと mean?
How to express “evolved to eat X”?
見える versus 見られる
Oddly structured “-ba” verb
「〜たはいいが、……」grammar pattern
Correct verb tenses for if-would-type sentences
When referring to herself, is there any pronoun other than お母さん when speaking to her children?
What is the difference between 「届け」and 「届ける」？
What's the difference between まねをする and ふりをする?
What does it mean to 暑苦しく語る?
This is pretty long, do you say this fully or is it one or the other? Also what does it mean? では・じゃ｝ありません
Meaning of 冷たいのは違う
Is the verb in 受話器から変な音がして止まらない future tense?
Correct verb for the subject
in 買っては, I need some explanation for っては part
Translating 「こんなばかな私をどうして愛してくれるの？」
Stem of ます-form as conjuction
Letter change in counting strides
What's the counter for episodes?
Study names end in 論 - criteria?
What's the difference between つれて行く and 送りします
Don't understand the situation in a shin chan comic strip
Can you explain this a little better? [closed]
手を出す — how to use it?
Past tense of 楽しそう？
Meaning of ゆとり　in this sentence
みぜんけい or れんようけい form for ない conjugation of i-adjectives
Can と be used to restate a noun?
What does it mean to use a する verb without する?
What does ば do in this sentence?
Why importing words from other languages rather than building new ones from existing kanji? [closed]
Need help understanding 住んでいました
What do I have to say when accepting my employer's request to be a LINE friend?
Still confused with tenses
ついかっとなってしまう meaning
“over in the blink of an eye”?
「セイン星矢」 v.s. 「セイント星矢」 in the opening song of 「聖闘士星矢」
まあいいじゃん meaning
息がつく（つける） and 息をつく（つける） difference?
When to use the particle 'ga' in questions?
Use of である in formal writing after volitional form
Outlining methods in Japanese
What does おつかれさまでしたどぞ means
Does the “odo odo” in this question mean fearful?
Meaning of なんか面白いことが起こりそうな予感
Sentence ending with でもあった
Grammar of 彼の日本語のレベルは私と同じくらいだ
What does the word 「とかいう歌」 mean?
Meaning of これ、聞いたほうがいいのかな?
Saying “you're welcome” at the workplace
Different ways to refer to oneself (2-in-1 question)
What is the meaning/usage of あのね/あのな at the start of a sentence?
Does “さよならだけは言わないで” mean “don't only say goodbye” or “don't say goodbye”?
Explanatory の particle in question
Japanese for the tech industry [closed]
What is the term (if any) for heaty and cooling foods in Japanese?
ヤマトナデシコ七変化 translation
New usage for the particle に
“on the drive home” / “while I was driving home”?
【対する】と【への】はどう違いますか。
What does こっちの方 refer to here?
「Vていった」 v.s. 「Vてきた」 in the case of 「お花しおれてっちゃった」
What does 違う mean in this “なんか違うわよね、これ”
What does そういうところがです mean in this exchange?
Nominalisation and は
What is Naruto saying in this video?
How to refer to a fixed number of things
Is 長生きはするもんな a set phrase?
What exactly is 駄目 in this 突っ込み?
Question about the meaning of 内外
Understanding correct choice on N1 grammar question
Use of というような in this sentence
Meaning of おともだちになるあくしゅ
How to read 二、三日 [duplicate]
ほら and ほれ - the difference
Can the tense of a subordinate clause be non-relative?
When is it natural to use で and に and when not to use them
Do even Kansai women use the ～ん negative?
What distinguishes the different ways to say something must be done? (E.G. しなくてはだめ、しなくてはならない、しなくてはいけない and so on)
What does こういうの refer to in こういうのって天然が一番怖いのよ
Does ゆく mean 征く in this line?
In Japanese, how do you say you will skip ahead past one section for time's sake while reading aloud to an audience?
Polite way to ask about something that I previously requested
「聞こえなくなった」 or 「聞けなくなった」?
What does this Verb+Noun structure mean and how to use it?
The grammar of 世話になる
とは、では、には Understanding of double particles
Is it okay to say 日本語を好き?
Can なる be used like this?
What is the real meaning of せずに in Japaneses language? [closed]
Meaning of 誰もいはしない in this sentence
少し日本語を話します and 少し日本語を話せます - What's the difference?
What's the difference between どこ and なん in this exercise?
What does 炸裂 mean here?
What is the purpose of なの in これらの話は本当のことなのか?
Does the Japanese equivalent of a lengthy combination of hyphenated English words exist?
What is と in this sentence?
Is the negative in ゆめ人に洩らし給えそ implicit?
Is there a Japanese word for “XY problem”?
Can somebody explain the various words and combinations thereof used for thanking?
Why do they say 'kawaii' for 'poor thing'?
What is the これで in これで失礼します
What is the meaning of そう君と二人 in the sentence below?
In Japanese, how do you tell the reader that a quotation is literally translated from the original when the original sounds strange?
What is the difference between 「帰る」and 「帰れる」？
How to say “at this rate”?
How to say “do you identify with”?
What does the word 「なんざ」 mean?
Translation-Question: [closed]
Is いけません used as an interjection like いけない？
What is the meaning/purpose of コ in ちょっとイケないコになっちゃう
Are there any terms used to refer to people of the anime/manga fandom in a non-derogatory manner?
What exactly is the subject?
Does the term 大和撫子 predate WWII, or was there an equivalent term for the ideal Japanese lady?
How do you write “translation mine” in Japanese for academic writing?
What's the difference between wa (は) and ga (が)?
Does 「7分の1」 mean 1:7 in this sentence?
The usage of 様{さま} (-sama) honorific
Translation of Anohito あのひと
Natural way to understand 景気の善し悪しが影響するという
母 stroke order irregular compared to 日
Is there a more natural way of asking this:「どんなカメラを使いましたか。」?
The meaning of the で in 勢いで
日本人は「面白い」と聞いて何を感じますか？
How do you say terms of endearment (pet names) in Japanese?
Difference between “山を登ったり、降りたり…” and “山を登って、降りて…”
そうですか versus そうなんですか
How do you say “a brush-shop clerk” in Japanese?
What does “zurusona” mean?
Help with translation of こともあって
How to translate historical names which don't necessarily have an equivalent in Japanese?
死亡者がいる, or 死亡者がある? Which is correct?
The grammar of verb in ば form followed by いい
Do dictionaries indicate whether a verb should be used with -て + いる form?
How do you say “of good stock” vs. “of weak stock” in Japanese?
What is the difference between 踊り and ダンス
Why is やっぱり (yappari) spelled the way it is? [duplicate]
What does 出来になる mean?
What kind of conjugation is 謝んなくった？
手えふった - what is the "え” here?
Dazai Osamu - 人間失格 「自分は[無]{む}だ、[風]{かぜ}だ、[空]{そら}だ」 grammar?
What's the difference between [四]{し}の[五]{ご}の言う and 文句を言う?
What is the direction of に in this sentence?
Leaving out particles before adjectives/verbs?
Why is こんにちは pronounced as konnichiwa? [duplicate]
How to say I want to make an appointment?
Two words, same meaning, used together?
Use of こうして in this sentence
Weird term 真綿感. What does it mean?
Can I say “考え迷う”?
What does the word 「つなぎゃ」mean?
How to say “Don't treat me coldly”? [closed]
“to bite *back*”?
なくちゃ is the short informal of なくてはいけません but why is there なくちゃいけないの rather than なくちゃの?
Is there any difference between 早く終われば and 早く終わったら?
犬と猫が好き or 犬も猫も好き, which one is correct?
What's the meaning of どんどんいくぞ/わよ?
Difference between だの and など/とか
Using 尊敬語・謙譲語 but not 丁寧語 on the same target
出てこないと気持ちは落ち着かない meaning
Difference between 鼻先 and 鼻の頭
あんまり versus あまり
Pronunciation of Ōsaka / 大阪 / おおさか / オオサカ
Shashin onegaishimasu / しゃしん おねがいします - informally acceptable?
落ちてしまいました versus 落としてしまいました
Differentiating ethnicity and nationality in japanese
くれる, あげる, and もらう
Is there a counter for part-time jobs?
My Japanese friend often says 中(なか) in our real life conversations - what does it mean?
How to say “I recently learned how to speak japanese” in japanese? [closed]
Meaning of すい歴史
The subjects of 言わないと分からない in this monologue
Is しようしよう here same as しよう?
What is the correct reading for the names 小此木 and 廣?
Are there more い adjectives or more だ adjectives?
Asking someone to sing a song with me
Is modern day keigo borrowed from kansai-ben? Sources?
The meaning of 美味しいクッキーで子供たちに大人気
What's the difference between 歩んでいった and 歩んできた?
そこには私一人しかいなかった - why not “私は”?
なでしこ (the football team) [closed]
Am I interpreting も correctly in this sentence?
How to write 'seaweed'?
what does 無駄にコマから出てくるな mean?
Do I have the right idea with ～てきた here?
The meaning of 手が出せない
Nuances in context- なぜそんなことをしたのか - why he did it, or what caused him to do it?
Nuances in context- なぜそんなことをしたのか - why he did it, or what caused him to do it?
The meaning of 激ギレ
How to call the game where you have to find where a picture was taken?
What makes 『青年』 and 『少年』 different?
Why is the sound “cha” spelled as ちゃ rather than ちぁ?
What does 『なのよさ』 at the end of a sentence mean?
What is ~げに suffix actually?
What does the word 「いいんスよ」 mean?
Complex subjects like “The [noun] that I can't [verb] is [verb]”
What function does とは have here? Is に omitted here?
Difference between 青々とした and 青々した?
Use of と and meaning of 色々 in this sentence
Is it valid to ask このグラフによると、カイロの人口がいつ増えてきましたか?
usage of 情けない反応
て form followed by て, 「見てて」
Why are words sometimes broken into syllables when said?
What does 「片付けといてくれ」 mean?
What does the word 「すみっちょ」 mean?
Why is が used here?
What does this そういうことよ mean?
When to use べき and when to use べし
The correct word to say “somehow” in different situations?
AはBにある versus BにAがある
Security guard nuances: 警備員 vs. 守衛
Meaning of 生じてきたことを喜ぶことのできる心の余裕を持ちたい
Is アルコール from Portuguese?
Express the idea of “I was supposed”
Doesn't Japan call North Korea “北朝鮮” ? why?
How to say “to be out of it” in Japanese?
Would it make sense to say お好きに僕に連絡かけてください?
Question conserning using とかしたら
Question about とき
trying to learn reading Japanese [closed]
Etymologically why do some words have explicit potential sense while others don't have?
What does わけ do in this sentence?
How to appropriately pair tenses in subordinate and main clauses?
What does ''Kono watashi ga'' mean? [closed]
Calling someone older brother/sister and the implications on relationships
What does でもわかる mean and what does あって+か do?
Is it common to shorten 感じがする to 感じ?
Embedded question followed by と
When to use Vている and when to use the dictionary form?
Can 連れていく be used with someone with a higher social status?
Resources for learning business Japanese [closed]
How to say “I was/am annoyed with myself”?
Font used to create handwriting worksheets by primary teachers to teach Hiragana
Is 「ごとと」 used as a particle or just plain word?
What does 「ふうに」 exactly mean?
Is the conditional, volitional, AND passive form of verbs used?
How to ask whether a dish is pescetarian-friendly?
Struggling to parse last section of 「あんた　子どもたちを　森へ　すててきておくれ」
What do the これ in これは失礼しました and これはしまった refer to?
The usage of とは in 緊急招集とは、おだやかではないな
What does the word 「間すらない」 mean?
する際 and 穴埋め meaning along with として
Can で mean 'and'?
How are the adjectives conjugated to izenkei (うれしけれ, たのしけれ) used here?
How to say “The girl who likes being photographed is my friend”?
What does the word 「いつの間に」 mean?
“to offer” in Japanese?
A japanese saying “一をいうと十返ってくる”
The meaning of モン in 上手いモンでしょう
Correct way of saying 'I did not see people in the library'
Te-form beginner question [duplicate]
The concept of past perfect in Japanese ～たのでした　～たのです
Using からが、からで、からに and からは
What are the と, という, and の doing in this sentence?
Should the color of Japanese stoplights really translate to “red / yellow / blue”? [duplicate]
Explanatory 「の」 particle being used twice in the same phrase
ある、いる、and いるの in this sentence
Using 持っていく with people
Is the phrase うちに上がる still compatible for non-Japanese style houses?
What does 席を開ける mean here?
What does the word 「しとったんや」 mean?
What's the difference between the ni and de particles? [duplicate]
Word for “British”? (I don't mean “English / イギリス”)
あなた when a guy says that to a girl
What are the best words to convey the same meaning of scab and dead skin, respectively?
Difference between 「にかかわらず」 and 「を問わず」
Difference between とあれば、にあって、とあって
Why don't we use ～なくて instead of ～ないで?
How should 手は打ってくる be translated?
What is the explanation for the archaic attributive particle が becoming a modern subject particle?
Why is 先 needed in アルバイト先で?
How should かしら be used in the middle of the sentence?
Difference between ことから and から
Is my understanding for the phrase, なくてはならなくなる correct?
How does a single verb construct work when it has both honorific and humble auxiliaries?
Plural form with -たち／-ら
How would you say “ If you'd like to speak English, it's fine by me”?
How is しまえば used? In what context and how it should translated to?
What does the word 「やで」 mean?
規則性の無い meaning and usage
Why might this device have both 原稿面上向き and 送信面上向き as equivalents of “face up”?
What does ホッチキスでとめる mean?
Difference between のに and というのに
How to say “please be strict with me” in Japanese
Does this sound like a native speaker? [closed]
っぺがやる following 連用形 [duplicate]
Relationship between どゆこと and どういうこと
Confused with an relative clause in active and passive form
What is a 甘えるような態度?
Usage of と in 明日は来られないと先生に伝えてください
Are there words still containing を either officially or colloquially?
手を貸す and 'lend a hand' - coincidence?
How to correctly intepret the following clause?
人間 vs 人 to refer to an individual?
針音ノ時計塔 or 時計塔ノ針音?
Past Unreal Conditional
The usage of そんな感じに to end a scene in narration
What does に do here?
What is the meaning of 絶対零度の怒り?
naming a school headquarters
Meaning of 「逃げることないじゃん！」
Confusing clause in middle of sentence
Japanese Dog Training Commands
Difference between 損害 and 被害
Does Japanese use litotes?
Difference between 入れる{いれる} and つける when expressing 'switch on'
どうやってしますか versus どうすればいいですか
Hierarchy of management titles in Japanese companies
Questions about the phrase 「きっとおなががすいているだろう」?
What is とう in 行きとうない
僕 in 敬語 - is it possible?
The meaning of する in もっと楽しそうにしたらどうなの
The meaning of "大好きなこのアリアカンパニーで無理に行き先を決めずゆっくり行こう” and to who it is said
How does the present tense work in a relative clause?
How to concatenate negative form of verbs to make use of the pattern ～て、～て、～します?
How to address a formal email response to a 学会本部事務局 when you don't know if the person is a 教授 or not?
副詞 before copula
Why are japanese comic storyboards called names (ネーム)?
Can using ある in place of いる be offensive?
Use of numbers in descriptions
どうしますか versus 何をしますか
How do Japanese speakers transition from polite to plain form amongst friends?
Is でござる used in Modern Society?
What is the difference between 落とす and なくす?
Use and examples of 違う
～て、～て、～します versus ～てから、～てから、～します
What does 「そのせい」 mean?
When do we have to use ～行くと思っている and ～行こうと思っている ?
The meaning of そう
What is the polite way to say, “move?”
Kanji from an image [closed]
What does 印象 refer to in 印象に残る?
What does the word 「たたっ」 mean?
What is the difference between 家{うち}の子{こ}供{ども} versus 私{わたし}の子{こ}供{ども}?
What is the て form of しない?
Is it okay to use お帰りなさい on a collegue?
Does there exist a poem that uses direction to change its meaning?
What does the 「おかけしやして」mean?
Can “コンピュータ” be interpreted to include smartphones and tablets?
How are twins addressed by their teacher at school?
What is the difference between びっくりした and びっくりするじゃないの
“この” vs “こちらの” with regard to implied plurality
耳をすます、何といみですか？what does it mean? [closed]
Is イングリッシュ a good translation of “Engrish”?
What does 「だける」means in this sentence?
～くする or ～にする versus ～くなる or ～になる
Japanese Term for “Cutscene”?
Where can I find the nuance/meaning differences between words with different kanji options?
Using both と and を with the verb 言う？
What kind of kanji is this?
neighbor, but on which side?
What does ムカつく refer to in this situation
What is the て-form doing in this sentence?
The difference between しなければ and するのでなければ?
What does the word 「よりうけ」 mean?
How to parse どうかなさいましたか and what does it mean in English?
What does 「たまらん」 mean?
Can someone please help me identify the first kanji in the image?
The meaning of という in 言うことを聞かないというのなら
“Understand that…” in Japanese
What does 「もつか」 mean in this sentence?
Difference between 信用 and 信頼 and when to use which?
How to say something is not unusually x
How 二週間 can be used to say “In two weeks…”
What is the difference between 気がする and 気はする?
Why is there no agent marker in this sentence?
Why are the words 「とうもろこし」 and 「とうきび」 used more commonly in Hokkaido than 「コーン」?
“You know what they say…” in Japanese
Help with お逃げになられるとは
中{なか} vs 中{ちゅう}
What role does もう play in this sentence?
The usage of いや in response to questions
What does と do in this sentence?
What are the subtleties of “て Form＋くる”?
Difference between 簡単{かんたん} and 易しい{やさしい}
Use of に in 「私には本物の若殿様がわかります」
Use of と見える in this sentence
Differences between する, 及ぼす, 与える with 影響?
Reference of そのこと in the following passage
What is the purpose of adding と?
Who is doing the action?
Meaning of 一丁前にご指摘失礼しました
What is んでいます and why use it?
Are ミツバチ and イルカ more frequently written in katakana?
Implicit topic switching
How to make comparisons using “like” in japanese?
Does つまらない mean to be boring and bored or just boring
What does the word 「やり」 mean?
How to parse 中国人で日本語が話せる方は、お電話ください。
Problems with some Japanese words [closed]
I'm trying to modify “cogito ergo sum” into “I write, therefore I am” - am I doing it right?
What are the different ways to use までもない?
Humble language for other people as an insult
こちらの vs この when referring to something
What does 度量が知れる mean?
Questions about the words 「いくつ」and 「あってもたりゃ」
What is the meaning of the word 「から」 in this sentence?
Generic title for children redux & referring to self in the context of children
difference between 実際 and 実態
箱の中に何がありますか versus 箱の中に何がいますか when I don't know whether it is an animal or object
Difference between 怪しい and 疑わしい
Why is “saying” used for the translation of 言う?
Generic title for children?
Difference between を話す and で話す
How to express that you “find” something boring, interesting etc
Spellings of あなた（がた）
困りました or 困っています
How to simplify a sentence with multiple ながら + たり?
The usage of という in questions
Nuance between 天, 空 and 大空 and between 地, 大地 and 土地
How does present tense work in Japanese narration?
Meaning of 「半日相撲をとりつづけに取ったら…」
What is じゃねんじゃ.. My friend say it is Tsukkomi but I don't get it
Why can 言ってんじゃねーぞ be an order?
Can't find this kanji
Can “が” ever mark the direct object?
What kind of kanji is this?
How to say “I see things differently than any others do” in Japanese?
Change of viewpoint in mid-sentence
Is there any difference for using 連用形 vs 連体形 when listing 形容動詞 to modify a 名詞?
How to say ''Mathematics is the most beautiful and powerful creation of human spirit" in Japanese?
Can キーウィ be used to mean New Zealander?
Does 京都 use じゃ、や、or だ？
Possible idiom or grammar structure I don't understand
Translating “数年の歳月” in this context, is it a unit of time?
Polite/nice way to ask for a language exchange partner
Difference between「広げる」、「拡げる」
Meaning of 当分先 (まあ当分先だろうな)
Why is hiragana used in the middle of this compound word? (障害者 vs 障がい者)
In what contexts might one say “風呂{ふろ}” instead of “お[風呂]{ふろ}”?
Do you need a question mark to indicate a question in Japanese?
Question about に and には in terms of emphasis
What does ヶ mean here?
Unable to understand grammar/meaning here [duplicate]
Are 臭い{くさい} and 腐る{くさる} related?
Can volitional form mean 'you should …'
Meaning of sentence
Meaning of sentence
Is it ok to use ～て下さりました instead of ～ていただきました?
If 結婚 is written as 結{けっ}婚{こん} rather than 結{け}っ婚{こん}, why do we write 持{も}って rather than 持{もっ}て?
Help understanding 案ずるより産むが易し
What does 「ことにならあね」 mean?
How can 【所】に【物】があります be converted to 【物】は【所】です?
what's difference between による and によって?
How to tell whether a building is マンション or アパート
What does the word 「したって　こられりゃ」 mean?
How was Japanese animism referred to before 国家神道 (State Shinto) was created?
A Question About the Suffix さ
What does そこんところ mean?
Would 日末 be a reasonable opposite to 日本?
What does the Japanese onomatopoeia もきゅもきゅ mean?
Please explain the end of this conversation, especially the あってこそ part of it
Use of けど in a sentence from my textbook [duplicate]
Understanding the particle の when used with the verb 知る
Where does the れ reading of 落 in 洒落 come from?
Does チャンプルー come from Indonesian?
Phrases to describe looking something up somewhere other than a dictionary
Difference between と and とは
What's the story behind 黒 and 黑? Why are they different?
Difference between “腹{はら}” and “お腹{なか}” is not 敬語{けいご}?
How to list numbers of things
“雷{かみなり}” is thunder, or lightning, or both?
What do Japanese signatures look like?
What does 頭をひねった mean?
What does いいんだな mean?
What does 「きみをしたって きたというが」 mean?
Confusion in choosing either 見やすい or 読みやすい
Meaning of 顔をする?
Do 見える - 見せる come from 見る?
（美化語）なさい - sound
Grammatical Pattern : VerbてのNoun
Problem parsing this sentence, particle (postposition) の
Native pronunciation of the character "し”
Can an adjective modify a na-adjective?
When does 今に refer to?
In daily conversation, frogs are called かえる not かわず, right?
The difference between using 元気 and 宜しい/宜しく
Idina Menzel pronounces “Sayaka” ( 沙也加 )?
Please clarify how to choose 屋根{やね} vs. 屋上{おくじょう}
Can someone help me identify this font? [closed]
Trouble understanding the meaning of 怒った肩 here
On the grammar of みんな見るメロ
Can't quite parse these sentences [closed]
Is the phrase 僕も私も used in ordinary speech?
いろいろ質問する versus いろいろな質問する
About: 開いた口がふさがらない
What does the word 「してやせんっ」 mean?
In what type of social settings could one say “百姓{ひゃくしょう}”?
Can someone help me understand this? (From the terms to an insurance policy)
Can “yee ka ka desu ka” mean “how are you?”
The meaning of the phrase 'sou janai' (romaji)
Does XをYと感じる　here mean to feel X to be Y?
“Also…” interjection in Japanese; appending an additional request or afterthought
Validity of 紅葉が出来る?
Can somebody please please help me translate this…? [closed]
Etymology of とにかく
Why do we use は rather than に in インタネットがとても遅い時は、切腹したいです?
Listing modifiers with 〜であり
How can I translate 打った人は誰ですか?
売る exact usage/meaning
Can a sentence end in a noun?
What does “ 自分の胸に聞いて頂戴 ” mean? Not Literally
What does mou もう mean with non-past verb?
What does the word 「とまあ」mean?
Can『ます形』やすい and 『ます形』にくい be rephrased as やすく『ます形』and にくく『ます形』?
貸してもいいですか versus 借りてもいいですか
Why does ようになる become ようになりました (past tense)?
Use of ◯ in titles
かい and だい - age?
Sentence ending with こと or もの in mathematics definitions
What does 尿が近い and 尿が遠い mean?
What is the difference between Hatsu and Saisho?
What does the 「とって」 mean?
How do I properly tell someone to proceed with a transaction in an email?
Told About Something
ごめんよ - what is it?
頭がいい人 versus 頭が切れる人
Use of quote marker と before unusual verbs
What is the formal way to say “しょっちゅう”?
grammar of a sentence explaining a 四字熟語{よじじゅくご}
What does the word 「ぶったてる」mean?
「万が一の場合」vs「念のために」?
How does 「から」 work in regards to 「だから」 and 「ですから」?
What is the female equivalent for 「ご主人様」 or “master?”
What does the word 「っぷち」 mean?
Situational use of politeness
What does the word 「ようく」mean?
How to translate 以前の問題
Is there a female version of ikemen?
What's the difference between「～と言いました」and「～と言っていました」?
What is 帰す form here?
Can we optionally include (or exclude) an を particle in between the noun of the する-verb and the する itself?
“The way she went about things” as 彼のする方
What is the name for the mixed ingredients in a bowl?
If 鳥肉 is chicken meat, what is duck meat?
Are there general rules on when to use kanji vs. kana?
What is the difference between できました and しました?
sentential modifiers(?) and relative clause question
The positive ～じゃない
What is that suspentive の particle?
Meaning of 私がではない
Using と to link clauses instead of て
How to say 'in 10 minutes' as in 'the bus comes in 10 minutes'?
Where does the な in 大人 (otona) come from?
Sentence Polarity when connecting sentences/clauses with て/で
Difference between （「~~~」と話した） and （「~~~」と語った）?
Meaning of 間合いを外す
The meaning of 司る
Pronunciation of マッハ or シャッフル
Are there verbs that simply cannot work alone under any circumstances?
How to pronounce 繁栄 han'ei?
Do Japanese actually pronounce the “v” sound?
Use of question particles in plain speech
What is the etymology of the “emphatic” ない?
Trying to understand the use of が as の
名 and 名前 - the difference
Referring to the English language
Difference between 誠, 実, and 本当
Question about で in this sentence: 今日だけは悲しいままでいさせてほしい。
i-adjective followed by だ
What's the meaning of this pastry pun?
Difference in usage/nuance between 厚生, 福祉, 福利 and 生活保護
Why does 日本語{にほんご} mean Japanese?
Can you make an adverb from a noun by adding に?
Does 文 refer only to written sentences, or can it be used for spoken sentences as well?
What do つれて and いくと mean here?
Particle と in “Feliksas と申します。”
連用形＋は＋せん　（殺しはせん。） meaning? [duplicate]
(When) can you use dictionary form with 間? / 辞書形と「間」は（どんな時に）一緒に使えますか？
What is the use of か in 売り始めるか〜
Why these words, 「お読み」 and 「お使い」 do not use te-form in this sentence?
Can ゐ/ヰ be combined with ゃゅょ/ャュョ?
How to accuse someone of lying
How do you say “chunky” or “congealed” in Japanese?
て form of adjective in 'no matter how much' clause
Was 蒙古症 or similar words commonly used to refer to Down Syndrome?
Difference between 内側 and 中
“Last edited by” - how to translate?
Difference between 頼む and 聞く
Meaning of グリッて
The origins and mechanics of pitch accent in SJ compounds
In front of “ほうがいい,” is it always past tense?
Usage distinction between 季節 and 季
Parsing and making sense of this sentence with multiple が's
Can a 皇帝 be female? [duplicate]
childish manner of speaking
Thank you note to Japanese professor
名前 - used for the name of something?
Translation - “form” (internet form you fill out, NOT an application)
What is the direct translation of ゆっくりする in English? [closed]
Intransitive verbs and ている
Were western soldiers called “鬼畜{きちく}米兵{べいへい}” in WW2?
What does 許しを乞い mean?
Difference between もう いい です and もう けっこう です
What is the denotation of 方言？
What does orIF mean in the middle of this Japanese sentence?
Beginner miscomprehension of spoken Japanese - finding wrong word boundaries
Why are the verb groups in Japanese called “consonant-stem” and “vowel-stem”?
～んだね as command
Difference between 遍 and 度/回 in occurences
How many unique on'yomi are there?
Can 思う take を and と at the same time?
Is ごめんなさいませ idiomatic?
Is the interjection おう really a Chinese loanword?
Why is ゟ considered obsolete?
The 普通形 of a verb in Japanese - future and habitual interpretations [duplicate]
Is “俎板の上の鯉” related to the Vietnamese phrase “như cá nằm trên thớt”?
How to ask if others want to do something?
Differences between 'must'
What are the principles behind turning foreign language words into verbs?(e.g. ググる and サボる)
When particle mo is used to mean also, particle wa is omitted. Does mo also replace ga?
Difference between 今{こん}後{ご} and 未{み}来{らい}
How to distinguish between う/よう of volition and suggestion?
Was katakana used in the teaching of Japanese as a foreign language?
How should the proverb “能ある鷹は爪を隠す” be understood?
Making sense of inflections and conjugated forms
Can か follow である?
What's the difference between 復帰, 復元 and 復旧
can one ever say “おいかがですか？”
Neutral vs. Exhaustive が
What is the meaning of 第ー部
Confusion on usage of か marking alternatives with verbs
How much does it matter if I use the wrong 'if'?
Explaining Tense in Japanese
What is the meaning of the word たんじゃ?
Why are there multiple katakana readings for a single kanji?
Is this sentence correct？ [closed]
How common/formal is あたくし?
Are there any differences between 仕事 and 作業
How common/formal is あたくし?
Which particle(s) can be used to list nominalised verbs?
The logic behind kanji choice for country name ateji
What do the words 「きてやった」 mean?
I think it's incorrect: 小さいのより大きい方がいいです。 is it?
What is the difference between 良い and いい?
What does こと mean in 彼らは騒々しいことおびただしい?
Does 'this friday' take に
What's the difference between 信じる, 信用する and 信頼する?
Trying to understand numbers
How did 逸 come to feature in pleasure/idleness words?
Emphatic / Focus loss upon translating between active and passive sentences?
Can a man address a woman with sama 様【さま】?
Why is connective form missing from this sentence?
Adverbial Clauses
Asking about “time sent” and “time received”
Use of に in this sentence
ばかり usage in 目もくらむばかりの宝石の山
The meaning of さすがにこれは同情する
How to ask someone to do something for you
Rosetta Stone's usage of kana for words instead of kanji
Does 「わるいところ」also have the meaning of “negative aspect of X”
How to say “I need more of X”? - usage of 「ひつよう」
How to say “my experience at place X”?
相 used in names
Pronunciation of 三分 when it means three minutes
'I'm glad I look like my mother'
Add English nuances to Japanese “いいえ”
Is “して” dropped in this phrase “ご利用{りよう}ください”?
～うございます construction
へい as agreement
The “3 highs” and “3 lows” when choosing a husband
Confusion with passive voice
Meaning of だけども / ですけども
Why is another photo referred to as もう一丁?
Modal expressions in “He must be Japanese” - に決まっている and ぜひ・きっと・必ず
Why is the order of bottom-left radicals different for some kanji?
What is this verb form - 通れ
correct usage of 'There be …' construction and 'somebody has something'
manzai vs banzai
Acceptability of 〜ようとしよう vs. 〜ことにしよう
What's it called when furigana push characters apart because they're so long?
What are the ways to express someone's condolences?
Need help translating a sentence - あるひ?
How would I say “when [x] happened”?
Apparently unrelated 音読み?
漢字の読み方 versus 漢字を読むの
Understanding 「あきらめたらそこで試合終了なので、最後まで頑張ります」
単語を十個 or 十個単語を - quantifiers before or after direct objects
こんにちは and こんばんは only once a day per person?
Can girls say いいな?
What does 「はだ」 mean?
Conditionals applied to verbs
Can you use V-ます before から？
Classical form of 落{お}ちる
Adverbs that can modify other adverbs / adverbials?
What is the meaning of using でば to end a sentence?
Which translation of “Mongolia” is most suitable for everyday use?
Difference between katakana so and n
Can girls use だよね?
燻る｛いぶる｝、燻る｛くすぶる｝、燻る｛くゆる｝ - difference?
を vs が with use against 好き?
The meaning of に in [切り出すに切り出せず]
Translation help please – Meaning of 「〜というが」
くだけた日本語 towards people you dislike?
Is there a word that describes greenish-blue colours (of any shade)?
I have some question about てけない
Psychological state verb + みる auxiliary?
“How to say this in Japanese?”
How are particles perceived at an expert level? [closed]
Meaning of って followed by のが?
What is the purpose of もの in this sentence?
verb versus noun + する
Translation of the sentence and its relation with the text in circle brackets
What does 「ときている」 mean?
help with translation! what's ようわからんなんて?
Providing definitions/explanations with というのは　～　のこと/ということだ
Is the verb 向く transitive or intransitive?
meaning of “たけしみたく、「５月病」にかかっている”?
He and I are similar in that
The usage of “性【しょう】に合う合わない”
Meaning of 持てない in 充電中は持てないほど暑くなるんだけど
も Particle before です
How to properly translate: “ドラゴンに食べられそうになったりと” in this context
Why are a high proportion of basic Japanese words written in hiragana?
Verbal forms allowed to determine a noun
How is からである used here?
atteita vs atteimashita
What does 「おいちゃあ」 mean?
Where does “gold day” originate from?
Could you tell me how to say 'sounds legit' please? My Japanese is poor
What distinguishes 恩, 義務, 義理 and 人情 from each other?
Why is it the postposition を used here instead of の?
Relative clauses with になる and のなる
What's the reading of 二人 in this sentence?
why is there a double “が” here: “… 岐阜県警が捜索したが見つからず、…”?
What does the word 「ありゃしねえ」mean?
Why is イチゴ written in katakana?
Grammatical name of the form used before -て, -たり, -た, -たら?
Qualifying Nouns With verbs and adjectives in japanese [closed]
Meaning of 日本に来られたらより理解できる
Volitional + というのだった?
Masculine and Feminine Speech - 行こうか and やめてよ
Meaning of おん after a name [closed]
Difference between 確{たし}かに and 誠{まこと}に
What does the word 「すまさんぞ」mean?
How do you indicate sections in a report if there are more than 5? (まず、つぎに、さらに、そして、最後に)
Can 「奴」 be used to refer to a female?
How would you structure a sentence to say “someday I will go to Japan”?
Why the random katakana in 「すみっコぐらし」?
In 十日と待たずに what does the と mean?
How do I know what the questioner wants me to answer?
What does 「どっか」 mean?
Can I say “砂糖ダイエット” ?
Can the onyomi be longer than 2 morae?
What do the words 「しとられん」, 「ちゅうて」 and 「おびえとるん」 mean?
noun + ばかり [exclusivity sense] ambiguity
The scope of そういうこと
Does 青少年を外出させないように refer to to letting a youth out alone, or in any circumstances?
Japanese Verbs: Causative form
Is the 数 necessary?
Use of は particle when talking about doing things on a certain day
What does 今日の所は良いでしょう mean here?
What are the basic physical differences between japanese poetry and prose?
What is the difference between ~ru and ~masu?
Question about the usage of “watashi”
combining several participle of verb + miru
“Even a crab” - Japanese proverbs (?)
Origin of -tai desiderative suffix
What do the words 「やった台」 and 「はずしてあった」 mean?
When would と appear at the start of a sentence?
Difference between 食事をする/◯◯を食べる
What do the words 「ばかこくでねえ」 and 「へえるはずさ」 mean?
Difference between 発展、発達、and 開発
Are the words in Japanese quotes 「」 always literally what is being said?
What is 〜んだ and how is it used?
Why does this haiku have a 5-6-5 pattern?
What do the words 「出ないのって」 and 「だる」mean?
Frequency adverb locations
Auxiliary verb ん
Meaning of お支払いを希望される方
Te form standing alone
Translation of “I am in college because of work”
Sentence pattern for describing a list of objects
Is [舐]{な}める a stative verb?
収入 or 給料? What should be used when talking about salary or income?
“Something came up” in Japanese
How does 〜しなくても済んだだろう work?
Sentence patterns for starting a picture description
The meaning of それを昨日、今日、司教になったようなのが！
matcha versus maccha [closed]
How do you tell when 言っている is progressive or resultive?
Why 'okane o haraimasu'?
What methods/systems for finding kanji or entering them on a PC tend to be faster than others?
What does the word「あるほうで」 mean?
What is the phrase used as a label on the food container to convey “No sugar added”?
What does the word 「ばあ」mean?
Connecting adjectives in a sentence
What's this handwritten character?
Pronunciation of the Japanese ん and nasalized vowels
Are there kanji which are NOT words by themselves (written standalone)?
Can たい and たがる be used for a 1st/2nd/3rd person's desire?
sense of a displaced “adverb” in a sentence written by Sōseki Natsume
Difference between 帰って来る and 帰る
modern meaning of “おやつ”?
Is it possible to use the 受身形 on a 自動詞
What is this strange kanji that looks a bit like 侍, but isn't?
Understanding particle-ni when there is no verb
What's the differences between おかず and 食べ物
How do adverbs work with multiple clauses in a sentence?
For furigana, can katakana be used instead of hiragana?
How to say 'they will suffer'?
The meaning of 「気が合わない人といっしょに生活するぐらいなら、このまま独身でいたい。」
Meaning of サマんなんない?
Mixture of romaji and hiragana in NHK “Meet and Speak”
Difference between the questions 「男じゃないんですか？」 and 「男じゃないですか？」
Meaning of 次の日はないようにする
How does 一目 work in this sentence?
Why are 兄(あに) and 姉(あね) pronounced differently in お兄さん and お姉さん?
Trouble with sentence structure and particles
Subject and beneficiary of 〜くれる
Do 〜によれば and 〜によると differ regarding the speaker's opinion of the following statement being true?
Could a verb or adjective in the past tense 〜た refer to something no longer true?
Why is 島 used in the name of some cities?
How is から used here?
How does ようにして work when followed by a verb/al?
How to say “email me at this mail address”?
What is the meaning of ～しにたちよったんじゃ?
How is character size dealt with?
「日本では美味しい和食が食べられる」と「日本は美味しい和食が食べられる」は違う？
て versus combining-form for joining clauses
How is the past tense in this sentence translated?
why does the following title end “…守られる” and not “守られている”? just to save space?
Meaning of 「つりたくない者が、つるわけない」 and 「よけいな心配しないで、のびのびと育ってね」
Commas and relative clauses
Meaning of 半分間違っているんじゃないかなと思う部分があるから、アメリカチック,アメリカナイズされすぎているっていうか。
Difference between 〜てみたい and 〜たい
Adjective negation: difference between 〜くない and 〜くありません
Customer who bought from you in the past, and buys again because they like the product
(Slang) Way's to say: What's Up/How's It Going
Pronouncing abbreviations, acronyms, letters? (NHK, CM, JR, A…)
Meaning of 光る事は光るが切れそうもない and 何だ指ぐらいこの通りだと
How do you read 麻色?
What is the difference between spellings しまう、仕舞う、終う、了う?
A few Doraemon related questions
why does “ら” follow “山中{やまなか}” here: “山中ら、予備検診{よびけんしん}で異常{いじょう}なし”
Meaning and usage of 〜してからにしろ
Meaning of 形 here?
Meaning and grammar of 〜かというとだね
Difference between て-form and と/や for connecting adjectives/verbs
Meaning of ところ in アメリカのいいところ
Why was 邪 chosen to spell the names of 伊邪那岐神 and 伊邪那美神 in the 古事記?
Asking somebody of higher social status whether they made a mistake
Reading and significance of dakuten with kana for which it normally is not used
Difference between 光る, 輝く, and 光り輝く?
What is the function of と in verb-ていると form
Usage and meaning of 仲ばし [closed]
Does the pronunciation of ん change with the sound following it?
Differences between “何度も or 何度でも” and 何回も?
Can とこに配属され be used for being assigned to a position?
The use of 恩着せがましい with と思う in this sentence
Can と imply と言わんばかりに?
Meaning of the phrase 「さわいどるんかの？」
How do you know what word to write in its kanji correspondence?
What's the difference between 無【な】くす and 失【うしな】う
Meaning of 長い間のロマンス in the song 四角革命
Understanding the subtleties behind [noun]する vs [noun]だ
Can その程度 be used for a high degree or with a positive connotation?
What do the words じゃが and おるかの mean?
What does の apply to after a list of items with と?
Analyzing 「だけど勝つのはいつも金太郎で、大きな体のクマでも金太郎にはかてません」
Meaning of “生まれし” [duplicate]
What is she saying? [closed]
Usage of しか～ない in this piece of anime monologue
Usage of イングランド, イギリス, and 英国
Meaning of 日本語が分かる
Can を be left out for this phrase 文句をつける?
When is using “陳{の}べる” and “知{し}らせる” in place of “教{おし}える” ok?
Giving and receiving with two 3rd persons
What does the word 「いってえ」 mean?
Meaning of onomatopoeia バン / ババン / バーン
Exact use of furigana?
What are they saying and what does it mean? [closed]
How is 情けは人の為ならず used?
Meaning of うりこぼる or うりこぶる - EDIT : AUDIO ADDED
“It was not my intention.”
Which noun is being modified in アリスがふみとどまろうかと考えるひまもないうちに
What is the approximate ratio of ways to express agreement vs. disagreement?
Ambiguity in meaning of sentences with a noun qualifed by an adjective with が particle
What is the correct way of saying “see you”?
What is the purpose of the renyokei form + ni part of this sentence?
What's the best way to say “redesign” pertaining to a web page/site?
How to express “I think I can speak a little Japanese because I have studied a lot” in Japanese?
誰も used in a positive sentence
The expression “but” used twice in row in a sentence
「深酷」とは　どういう意味ですか
Meaning of 緑色 in this passage
What's the difference between 間違える and 誤る?
What's the difference between 根気【こんき】, 我慢【がまん】, 辛抱【しんぼう】 and 忍耐【にんたい】
X times bigger than
What does のに mean here?
Is there a difference between 終わりたい and 終わってほしい
What is the correct way to read chapter numbers? (e.g.: 第1話)
Multiple common kanji for a word: which to use?
What is the subject for the following sentence 「ダメ、絶対に逃がさないんだから」?
what does “私なりに…” mean?
Translating 世界中 in this context, does it literally refer to the “entire world”?
Old fashioned grammar structure?　「きいてみたくてならなかった」
Is classifying the usage of the conditionals (if/then) like so, correct?
How do i say “for every x, show that P(x) is true”?
Difference between 運命 and 命運
Meaning of a conjugation of 巡らす (巡らせ)
Why does [小っ酷い]【こっぴどい】 mean “very ひどい” rather than “slightly ひどい”?
What are the differences between ように and よう when used to link sentences?
Explanation/Usage of 瞬きしては
What's the meaning of もらたらす?
Could someone please help me understand はまっちゃいそう in this context?
Answering exams in Japanese
Help translating 皆には私の方から話しておこう
Does 児戯 have the same idiomatic value in Japanese as “child's play” does in English?
Conditional counter-factual, main verb past vs nonpast?
Difference between passive and intransitive for positive verbs [duplicate]
Is there a difference with 胃 and おなか?
What are the meanings of 「って」, 「とこ」, and 「ねえで」 in this sentence?
Is there a kanji for “hacker”?
When does 明日辺り start and finish?
Meaning of <amount of money> + から
Meaning of noun + らっけかぁ～
でありません(でない) vs ではありません(ではない) vs でもありません(でもない)
Meaning and usage of ~としたことが
Exact meaning of も (maybe emphatic?) in a sentence
How do you say “I already can tell (understand) X”?
What do I actually call familiar or friendly language?
Politeness / political correctness and gender polarity of “plural” suffix -等(ら) for 彼 and 彼女 etc
Meaning and usage of きっと良{よ}い
What does 花つ月 mean?
How to denote length or any other measurement
How do は and もの work in this sentence?
Difference between verb ~ている + (瞬間・とき)
What is オレたちゃ a contraction of?
Meaning behind adding 'め' after someone's name?
Noun + さえ + Verb (infinitive)
How is こちらこそ used?
Is this は or はいる: ～わかってはいるものの
What does っつの mean?
How to interpret this comma?
How would you use どうもこうもない?
What's the difference between 呪術【じゅじゅつ】, 魔法【まほう】, 奇術【きじゅつ】, and 魔術【まじゅつ】?
連体形＋ようか (casual) - what to make of it?
Why is スタイル used to denote body figure?
How do you ask if you are understood without being rude?
貰｛もら｝える物は貰っておく (idiom?) meaning
What is the meaning of 「あれほど」?
Why is “学生” made “plural” in this newspaper article?
Which particle to use to say, “for (occasion)”?
How do とは and に/された work in 「N700系とはどこが違う？N700Aに搭載された性能」
そういう君は～、 そういうおまえこそ～ - meaning?
How to describe someone who has a “radio voice”?
後だったので v 後で interpretation
What is the meaning of the sentence “すごかないわよ”?
“again” word: 二度｛にど｝, 再び｛ふたたび｝ - usage, difference
What is the etymology of イギリス?
Difference between 揃う【そろう】 and 集まる【あつまる】
is “kanji” an uncountable noun in English? [closed]
What does the 'あ' do in this sentence 「そいつあけっこうだね」?
What's the meaning of ですね in here?
How is からだ used here?
Difference between んい and に
接続助詞は名詞修飾節の中に使えますか？・接続助詞で作る文は他の接続助詞で作る文を修飾できますか？
Seeing the invisible の in old names and words
Why do the Japanese use loanwords for words that have functional equivalents?
Dear sir or madame… Japanese Mail Etiquette
Is there a difference between きらい and がすきではありません?
How are items enumerated in Japanese restaurant menus?
Where should I use 租借 {そしゃく} or 賃貸 {ちんたい} or [リース ]{りーす}?
記する｛きする｝、 記す｛きす｝、記す｛しるす｝ - how do I use and/or differentiate between them?
Meaning of “頭に付く”?
Some questions about だけ and clarifications about its nuances
Is マスカット an accurate translation for “green grape”, and what foreign word is it derived from?
Adverbial Nouns and Temporal Nouns
ところを 見つかる, this was in a highly reputable dictionary
Translating “I'm yours”; does あなたのもの work?
Trying to understand 私のこと in this sentence [duplicate]
How to describe a recurring/retrieved condition?
When to use と and こと?
Why is 渡部 累 transliterated/translated to “Lui Watanabe” with an “L”?
when should I use を instead of が?
What word describes the concept of worldwide time zones?
Does this double negative make a positive or negative sentence?
Why can は and を sometimes be used interchangeably?
When can an adverb use の to modify a noun
Omitting は when the topic did not change
町｛ちょう｝、町｛まち｝、街｛がい｝、街｛まち｝ - how to pick the correct pronunciation?
を as locational particle
The meaning of の in この役立たず and お兄ちゃんのばか
A bit confused about the usage of どころ?
Do Japanese people see ツ as a smiling face?
Is バッチリ a generally accepted term?
What does the word 「こいや」 mean?
Why did the author briefly jump to present tense in this article?
What does と mean all by itself here?
木 vs 樹 for trees
と particle usage - am I understanding it correctly?
Meaning of 「兵法」
レアチーズケーキ: Does 「レア」 originally come from “rare” or from “layer”?
独｛ひと｝り善｛よ｝がりの考え - what does it mean?
What's the difference between 最近、このごろ and 近頃?
How to say “lose a friendship/drift apart”?
開始三秒 - what does it mean?
What is the difference between [新規]{しんき} and [新]{あたら}しい?
Activity verbs vs Change verbs
what's the grammar of ださん?
“Ikkigomi”? Single comment in Japanese
Can anyone help translate this Kanji? [closed]
~の帰り - what does this mean?
What does it mean to describe a joke as ジェネギャ?
When to use もちろん, うん, and はい?
前 in 十年前の話 - ぜん, まえ, or さき?
Use of 何か in this sentence
Does 'かわいそ' in this context mean 'is pitiful' or 'I feel pity for'?
Using the Nelson index# as a means to order kanji? What do natives use?
ひとこと・いちげん・いちごん - what is the difference?
名詞＋のない？名詞＋がない？Which one is better here?
Understanding hiragana-only texts in videogames
Can someone transliterate this artist's name? [closed]
Heard that “master of something” is pronounced as 'shokaneen'—could you help me find the right term?
Usage of Heisig radical “big”
How to say noun with/without noun
Is “げえしゃ” a valid pronunciation of “芸者”?
Words for area/district/region: the actual difference between 地区、地帯、地域、地方 (and also 区域)?
Multiple “wo”s in a sentence?
Why are Japanese vowels occasionally rhotacised in songs?
What is the meaning of “くうとうめえから”
What does シャリン mean here?
What are the meanings of おはようございません and ありがとうございません?
Is this a 仮定形 (kateikei) form, and how to analyse it?
What does 元本払戻金 mean?
Sentence structure between two clauses question
What does “ 万寿一 ” and “ つうさん ” mean?
Meaning of “すわりがいい”?
Use of する to describe one's colour
What is the difference between 逃{のが}れた and 免{まぬが}れた?
What is the difference between 「利{り}益{えき}」 and 「利{り}潤{じゅん}」?
How many Jōyō Kanji are identical to simplified Hanzi?
What does のに at the end of a sentence mean?
Order of verbs in this sentence
How do I say “it was the first time X (of this extent) happened?”
Help with 第一夜 by 夏目漱石: 「大きな潤のある眼で、長い睫に包まれた中は、ただ一面に真黒であった」
What does 兼 mean when it appears next to a person's name in an organizational chart?
Connecting adjectives, “does not have to A and B”
Significance of と in ~からといって
Is it easier to learn Chinese after learning Japanese or vice versa? [closed]
Is オージー understood by non-Australian Japanese speakers?
Difference between 母語話者 and ネイティブスピーカー
Structure of だから地味になっているかというと、そんなことはなかった
help with this sentence from Pokemon (みちに だんさが あるだろ!)
Difference between 出席【しゅっせき】する and 参加【さんか】する
What literary purpose is served by not having a verb at the end of the sentence?
What's the meaning of 届けて
Is there a difference between 爆発しないといい and 爆発しないとよくなる?
“Masu” verb form vs “Imperfective” verb form
Can you use the “Ha, Heh, Hee, Ho” method for learning Japanese vowels?
起きたことを … proper english rendering?
思うようにならず - what does it mean?
What is this verb form? 見せっこ
Separating words in a sentence [closed]
What is the meaning of どうじゃい
A self-introduction for academic purposes
How to say “X if Y”?
How to express an exception, being able to do sth. normally, but not today?
Clarification on 人の夢は終わらねェ
How do you say “pair” of people?
The use of なんというお名前ですか?
What do people mean when they just type こん？
Is there any difference between そこで and それで?
Is there a less formal way to say あなた？
How to translate ギアを収納
How to tell if a word is Sino-Japanese or Yamato
Explaning the phrase 「注{ちゅう}目{もく}特{とく}集{しゅう}」
Why was “アオ” used instead of ”あお”?
What does かなり actually mean?
Intrepretation of よく
わかる、分かる、判る，解る - essential difference? [duplicate]
How do I greet a group of people in different time zones?
The meaning of “ありちゅーかありじゃないですか”?
Difference between 彫る【ほる】 (horu) and 刻む【きざむ】 (kizamu)
What's the meaning of the ending じゃないの?
S1 たら S2, with S2 being past tense AND volitional
Can 話して歩いた be the same as 話しながら歩いた?
Meaning of て　もかまいません
Is ありです a colloquial expression for ありがとう?
頑張った…being interpreted as cheering for?
What is a newspaper 段, exactly?
What's the difference between ために/ため, ように and のに meaning “in order to”?
How do you know when to use です or います？and when to use the particles は or の？
Is the “？” character an official character in Japanese syntax?
More questions about 'to be' in japanese
Don't quite understand sentence in Japanese folk-tale video
Meaning of ゴリゴリの荒いもの
What's the difference between だから, そこで and それで?
What is the difference between 一層, 一段と and より一層?
How to translate “もしかしてそのスーシおニュー？”?
What does ～たまえ mean exactly and how do you use it?
Konya kimi wa boku no mono
What does '-' mean?
Identifying omitted verb phrase
Difference between 類 and 類
Why does this word have the registered trademark symbol ® on it? [closed]
Radicals : How to remember suffix-es, readings and positions?
How to translate this sentence about ebooks and reading habits? [closed]
Radicals: がしら (gashira) endings?
Something is broken
“to talk with friends” structure
In a period of time
How do I pronounce these Katakana Onomatopoeia (words that sound like noises)?
Explaining pharse 「今日のイチオシ」 - part ~オシ
When to use 丁寧語 and/or 尊敬語 [duplicate]
What does にして mean in this sentence? (a variant of にしておく)?
Looking for a kanji/symbol used for counting noodles
Chotto and sukoshi …kudasai?
Meaning of 「なぜでもだ」
How do you tell when 持つ is stative or dynamic?
Can 〜てもいい indicate you are giving yourself permission?
How to read 一人 and 人 in those sentences [closed]
What is (たた）なわり?
Help with nuances of a list please? X や Y も…“X and Y, as well” or “X as well as Y”?
これまた／なんてこれまた meaning?
What would be the correct translation of “Something in Japanese”
Does 同居 have a sexual connotation?
What is the difference between 仲間 and 友達?
Why is the negative form of [べき] べからず?
When does 感謝 happen in 分かるように分かりやすく説明してあげるから感謝しなさいよね！
Which one is better? 鮮魚 or 新鮮な魚?
How does the negative form of である get to be ではない?
Is だ (plain form of です) omittable?
The personal agent and indirect object in a passive sentence
Asking how to say something, why do we say 何といいますか?
meaning of もったり
What does 形から入る mean?
Usage of Verb て Verb て [closed]
Understanding これといった〜ない [closed]
Is レリゴる likely to be understood, and what does it mean?
Can this incredibly complex sentence be simplified?
What are kanjimaniacs? [closed]
甲斐 （かい） usage in present tense
Use of わけ in this conversation
Difference between 「にかかわらず」 and 「にもかかわらず」
Difference between using ころ and ころに？
Constructions like　[ “direct speech” と noun ]
未来につなぐ: Precise meaning? Fuzzy marketing buzzword?
Difference between 思った and 思っていた?
Is the following sentence correct? [closed]
ある or 持つ, what's the difference?
How would you translate ボタンを掛け違う?
Can we use negative form before ～てしまう : f.ex. なく+～てしまう？
How do say “close to” re: location?
“If you were to ask why, …”
のに (noni) versus けど (kedo) to mean “but, although" etc
Translating チャレンジ
Particle question about で and に
Particle Choice: は・が・を - “I want … to be my …”
Can 勝手に決める by itself carry a negative connotation?
Difference between 「～かかわらず」 and 「～かまわず」
Why are points used where furigana would be normally?
最終講義・懇親会の出欠連絡の葉書に、伝統的にどんなコメントを書くべきですか。
When writing Japanese when is it appropriate to write vertically?
How can I say this in japanese? [closed]
What is wrong with my translation?
What could it be: つもりでいた？?
Is the ending ~ま鶴 just a slang corruption of ~ます?
Meaning of ぐらいでいいのでは in 「三回ぐらい噛んで飲み込めるぐらいでいいのでは？」
少しぐらいは and 少しぐらい usage in casual speech
いい人そう。using “seemingly” そう with nouns?
Unfamiliar phrase: ありきたりっちゃありきたり
How does つつ work in a sentence like 飲みつつそう言った?
what is the use of で in 日本料理は京都の料理でたいへん美味しい
ければ possibly used to link verbs instead of causation? (visual novel, narration)
自意識過剰 - what does it mean, exactly?
Does しとこう mean what I think it means in casual speech?
How did 真っ赤 came to mean “downright”? [duplicate]
Is さようなら still used in real life?
Meaning of メロメロ, ギッタギタ and のす
Nuance and current-ness of “ぼくとお茶しませんか”
is this a grammatically sound sentence? [closed]
Using 「点」 vs 「所」 vs 「箇所」to refer to a point in a document, description, etc
幸い Usage with Particles (~で or ~に)
Nominalizing する Verbs
とする(か) VS Volitional, conjectural and と思う
What is the meaning of らと?
Difference between 便利さ and 利便性
あたり at the end of the sentence
Passive vs Active form of verbs when used as adjectives
How to understand チラツ
生活になぶられた、男の子は自殺した。Passive voice in Descriptive Relative clauses, and word choice
How to understand なんだ [duplicate]
Plain Form of にくいです and とくいです
Is this how to say “I'm going to Japan Wednesday.”?
What does 回 mean in 回答?
Meaning of 「という訳でもないのだが」
3rd person references in formal emails
(Person's name) + 君の事
I was told to do X if Y
「～てます」 as an adjective
Usage of an adjective 細やか（な）
Usage of a verb 希望する
ず negative verb
Use of 「～ておりますしょうか。 」 [closed]
What is the difference between 〜て and 〜の？
How do you use “omou” in the past tense? [closed]
What's the difference between (いちば/しじょう) for 市場?
Is 「習得している」much different from 「勉強している」？
Word order and expressing time
「ひがし」 vs. 「あずま」
Does using 書き順 sound childish?
Using “Nara” with Different Verbs
Is じゃないです equally correct as じゃありません?
“A Hen in the Wind”?
How to say a sentence without repeating the word?
What does 看板親父 mean?
Should どれ always be the first part of a sentence?
「周囲を取り囲む(ように)」, set phrase?
verb+ようにと、 or verb+かと、
How to read: the “~” (tilde) in “3~4 行”
「探してくる」には「見つける」という意味は含まれますか？
Is おふくろ related to ふく?
Does ただな mean the same thing as ただの?
Why did 摩羅 also come to mean penis? [duplicate]
How to say “go by bike”
What is the grammatical analysis of the sentence 「君を笑いに来た」?
「一週間後に解約する」 but 「一週間後での解約」, why not the same particle?
「行くときゃ誰とゆく」— what's this きゃ and the とs?
What is the difference between ために and -masu root verb+ に?
Standard for writing/pronouncing loanwords: ウインドー v.s. ウィンドウ, etc
はは or おかあさん what should be used?
～しよう＋としてします。 What is the meaning of this expression?
The use of へ towards an abstract concept
Why words such as しばらく are almost always written in kana while words such as 石鹸 are usually in kanji?
Is this a different accent than Tokyo's?
大阪から東京までに泳ごうとしたけど、途中で道に迷います。Does this sound natural/correct?
How to use の particle and the で particle if I want to say “I bought the shoes in Tomoyo's shop”
What is the difference between すみませんが and すみません?
What's the difference between 大きいケーキ and 大きなケーキ?
Help with Kenjougo!
Is there such a thing as: tate ni naru?
Which grammar rules are applied when でいい is conjugated to nouns?
「のだろう、」 mid-sentence
Is it polite in Japan to ask if someone speaks English? (英語を話せますか？)
Meaning of “gkbrです”
Difference between お腹がすいた and お腹がすいている ― 「お腹がすいた」と「お腹がすいている」の違いは？
What is the real correct translation of “彼は好きじゃない”?
What is the meaning of やるやない？
How to say “Tell Paul to send me the letter I wrote for his father”
Why is 「で」 in 「三人のうちで一番…」 omissible but 「で」 in 「ここで待つ」 not?
Confused about the relationship between 「丸」 as in 「日本丸」 and 「麻呂」 as in 「君麻呂」
Translation of 友達【ともだち】に 嘘【うそ】がばれてしまった
Twitter idioms: Why do some Japanese have an “@” in the middle of their “names” (not usernames)?
What kind of conjugation is used here? 「取らじ」
How does one keep from being confused about the pronunciation of 地下鉄？
difference between “日欧米で株上昇” and “日米欧で株上昇”?
The passive form [closed]
Use of 全部{ぜんぶ} in the following sentence
Placing a quantifier between a noun and particle?
Can 借家 and 家賃 be used interchangeably
Can the Japanese present tense indicate a continuous acton?
indefinite pronoun equivalent of “one” e.g. “one must…”, “one might…”
translation of 「あえて言えば、…」
Differences between 「が」、「ても」、「のに」
Difference between 者{もの} and 人{ひと}
What's the difference between 水 and 湯
Is it grammatically correct to use よう without な, に or だ（です）after it?
Meaning of “でも” in “食事でもどうですか？”
「星が見えない＝Stars can't be seen」 but 「目が見えない＝Eyes can't see」, why?
What is the meaning of the 「が」 in 「仲間だろうが！！！！」
大きじゃない vs 大きくない？
Meaning of 時間も時間だし?
Question about order of events in relative clauses. 呆れたように言う彼女を横になったまま見上げつつ、俺は持っていた本を机の上に置いた
実名 vs 本名 connotation？
Usage of の before です
Explaining the phrase 書｛か｝き込｛こ｝みによると
Use of で for location with an adjective
How do you write “do you live with your parents?” in hiragana?
Usage of て form before relative clause e.g. そう呟いて見上げる空は、朝見たよりも輝いて見えた
What does 曰く mean when it is *not* preceded by a name?
Arimasu as a parting phrase
What criteria decides whether to print 「氏」 or 「さん」 at the end of a person's name in newspapers?
Meaning of いくら and って in this sentence
がわ/そば difference and use
Translation of particle で in 「オーストラリアは今夏でとてもあついです」
Meaning of 家族ポイントを消費
Translation of Hosutofamiri- no Minasan (ホストファミリーのみなさん)
Meaning of, Transitive verb in “te form” + iru vs Intransitive verb in “te form” + iru
Compound verb in Japanese; verb(te form)+verb vs verb(masu stem form)+verb
Counter word for prepackaged instant ramen
How to say “I don't know what you're referring to”?
Scope of negation in 「カラオケはいちばんお金を使いません。」
Which radical name should I study for the kanken?
Is there a name for kanji compounds consisting of kanji with the same radical and for compounds with repeated kanji?
Meaning of だって in this sentence
興奮する to be excited or to get excited?
Confused about sentences: 当たる and 出る
“The earlier we leave, the earlier we'll arive”-type construction [duplicate]
What is the Japanese proverb for “even a thief is right three times out of ten”?
Why do さ and ざ look the same except for the little strokes on the side?
What is the difference between using ている、ていた、た in relative clauses?
In real life, do Japanese speakers exclaim things like 熱っ！ or 痛たた… or 寒！?
「勉強{べんきょう}を続{つづ}ける」 vs.「勉強をやり続ける」
How to describe something as hypocritical
Nuance of “クソ” within “クソコラグランプリ”
What's the difference between こそ and さえ in 「忙しくて昼ごはんを食べる時間＿＿＿ない」
Effects of あ after other vowel endings
usage of ていた in 俺の一撃は、彼のもう一本の剣にギリギリで弾かれていた
Meaning of 挨拶 in a visit
What's the meaning of と in 「『・・・・・・』っていう文章だと良かった」?
The use of particle の in positive and negative comparisons
Co-occurrences of 「も」 and 「でも」 such as in 「何度も何度でもスキになる」
Use of 一体 in this sentence
Politeness and Usage of ぶっちゃけ
Explain ますよう + [noun]
What does the term “prenominally” mean?
Meaning of 僕のほど in this sentence
おきばりになさって！ with the meaning of 頑張れ！
What does 彼なら mean?
The difference between する and している with onomatopoeias
Different kanji forms for “みる”
Japanese for “Chinese Opera”
What does とでも mean?
The usage of 侮れなかった
Difference between 本当に and 全然 in a negative sentence
How does 別に function as an adverb?
Why is the title of this manga 『からかい上手の高木さん』 instead of 『高木さんの上手なからかい』?
What does “＝” equals sign mean in Japanese news headlines?
what does とつて in the context of エサとつてくる mean? [closed]
Usage of plain i-adjectives or た form (悪かったｖ悪い、良かったｖいい etc）
で in the usage of サッカーで怪我をした etc
Is ために　here a wrong one? [duplicate]
Translating “どうして〜のか忘れがちになる”
What are the major prescriptive style guides for Japanese prose?
usage of から at the end of the first sentence with the second part in the next
Nanori reading needed for JLPT?
What does として mean in 「ペットとしてしいくするのはかんたんです。」?
What was the Japanese word for “clockwise” (時計回り) before clocks were commonplace?
What is being abbreviated as っちゃあ in 「忙しいっちゃあ忙しいけど…」?
Requirement of の in this sentence? [duplicate]
Why does 出る accepts を although it is an intransitive verb?
「もんか」の使い方を教えてくれませんか？
Adjective conjugation of 小さい and 少ない in these sentences
というものでもない vs. というわけではない
How is the Iroha poem usually pronounced?
Origin and meaning of the proverb 死人【しにん】に 口【くち】 無し【なし】
Usage of intonation with sentence ending particles e.g. ね
How is the adjective 多い being used as a noun 多く here?
Topic marker in これは大きい本を食べる犬です
What is the subject of「あけましておめでとう」?
Usage of te-form in 異音の原因がわかり、安堵して大きく息を吐く
How is 家 in [name]家 pronounced?
Is 育ち行く normally used?
“Infinity” as a tattoo [closed]
Meaning of タッグでやる
Do Japanese people use quotation marks for emphasis?
Why are long vowels represented differently in hiragana and katakana?
What is different between 分かります and　分かりました。
How do characters talk to each other in “Like Father, Like Son” movie [closed]
Usage of からな at the end of a sentence
Meaning of “普段ならまだしも、さすがに今は少しばかり状況が違う”
When would I use ふん instead of ぷん?
The genesis of pitch accent in Japanese
Which font is used here? [closed]
what is this usage of けど?
Translation and kanji help [closed]
Use of まで in this sentence
強い風だから全然聞けなかった Translation Help
なんと versus どう usage
My name is Midori, but I have never known the Kanji
What is this kanji ? Looks like 七 three times
What's the difference between 補給, 補充, 補足, 補完?
What is the most common word used for 'idea'?
How to ask the 'looks like' or appearance of something?
due to kanji variants, are 器械、海外、劍道 even words?
は/が and を with the Passive form
What verb form is “見えたり する” and what does it mean?
What is the difference between 酒 and お酒?
What are the differences between 金、料、代、and 費？
Use of 方に In this sentence
What is the difference between こだわり and 良｛よ｝い?
Question about the それに
Etymology of モブ
Is it correct to use で in this sentence if I want to convey “and”?
Difference between せんしゅう and ぜんしゅう
Is there a preferred way to say “If you think about it..?”
What does “本気になれぬ” mean?
How would you talk about relative time in the past?
こっち、そっち、あっち、どっち
What does “のでは” mean at the end of a sentence?
General rules for final kana in names ending with consonant?
Use of ことです in this sentence
What's the difference between ね and でしょう for tag questions?
Need help translating a sentence involving 要して
How to translate 動詞+かのような+名詞?
What is the meaning of あいつはあいつで?
How to say with?
Does this “は” indicate a sequence of events?
Pluralization in Japanese: usage of -たち and -ら
What's the difference between いつ and 何時{なんじ}
Function of “でも” in “とでも言うべきであろうか”?
-的 adjectives modifying nouns without な
Difference between 英才【えいさい】 and 天才【てんさい】 (genius)
How does someone know when one word ends and the next one starts?
Specifying Objects in Japanese
Simple Phrases in Japanese [closed]
Introducing people
Words ending in consonants [duplicate]
What could the expression “ナンパされた” mean in english?
Why are there two readings of 留める?
How should say I: 僕、俺、私？ [duplicate]
Am I the only one who never says “少女{しょうじょ}”?
How to use “happy new year” expressions: 賀正{がしょう}, 謹賀新年{きんがしんねん}
Clarification about this use of どこまでも
What part of the kunyomi must be learned?
What's the difference between these two phrases?
real meaning of 子供に話を聞かせてあげました
When each of joining particles ～や～ and ～とか～ should be used? [duplicate]
What is kanji pronunciation used for?
Subject for 感じ in the following sentence
Usage of さぞ and きっと
私は日本語と英語で思っています。
How should “イモ” be translated?
“Kekkosema wa”?
Future II Simple in Japanese
Song translation with two possibilities - “One more time, one more chance” by Masayoshi Yamazaki
What's the difference between 親切 and 優しい?
What is the difference between all the words for tools / devices?
What is the difference between 忘れないで and 忘れるなよ?
What's the function of “と” in “海に行きたいといつしか話した”?
What's the grammatical breakdown of “知りもしないわ”?
How would you say something is like something else?
Can I get a grammatical breakdown of “通りゃんせ”?
Meaning of どんだけお人好しなんですかって話ですよね
interpretation of particle と followed by の [duplicate]
Clarification of a sentence from a video game, 「~為」
Is there a “default” topic when speaking in Japanese?
what does the slang ぱしり mean?
What is the meaning of the phrase いい年こいて?
interpretation of 玉を落とす in this sentence
Are there any patterns for okurigana?
Meaning of ならずとも
What is the meaning of the phrase ”男の顔になったな”
How to ask for something, formally, but on the internet
Differences between the words for “decoration”?
「しまう」 as an auxiliary verb
「身につく」 Usage of this word in this sentence
新しい 机 を 買って もらいました。“They bought me a new desk” or “I bought and received a new desk”?
Understanding 「女神を信じてここまで来たのだろう」
What does the “だった” in “だったっけ” mean?
Is “クリスマスの休みだよ！” an appropriate expression?
Is either 霊験 or あらたか used outside the phrase 霊験あらたか?
Most egregious examples of the reading of a kanji changing due to (textually) distant characters
In だったっけ, why is the second “っ”(tsu) used when it can't be connected to “け”(ke)?
Difference between 怒り{いかり} and 怒り{おこり}
Usage and meanings of 十分
を without a transitive verb? [duplicate]
Is the kanji/kokuji “taito” (たいと) with 84 strokes legitimate and ever used?
What's the difference between ～れれば and ～れば?
朝ご飯は vs. 朝ご飯に - difference between these two sentences?
What does パー mean by itself?
What is the difference between すみません and すみませんでした?
Is saying 行ってきます and ただいま appropriate for guests?
What does this mean 先月　何日　会社を　やすみましたか。
Is 忝い（かたじけない） used in contemporary language?
Polite Way of Saying “I can't…(answer the phone)” (しかねる vs. できない)
Making sense of をと
What does 八 have to do with [八つ当たり]【やつあたり】?
If 「は」 marks a topic, and 「が」 marks a subject, what does 「です」 do in terms of nuance?
Correct way to say “I am a beginner in Japanese”
Desire words: When to use 欲望{よくぼう}, 欲求{よっきゅう}, 欲{よく} and 欲念{よくねん}?
やり as a prefix - clarification please
I've never seen a sentence that uses か and は together like this before
About a line in a TV drama which is hard to understand
Should 「ソウル」 be pronounced as “so u ru” or “so: ru”?
「写真は良い思い出になります。」 “Pictures make for great souvenirs”?
How do you translate “My hovercraft is full of eels”?
Japanese grammar structure order
What is the difference between all the weather words: 気象{きしょう}, 天気{てんき} and 天候{てんこう}?
What does it mean when newspapers give furigana for 常用{じょうよう} kanji?
Is 四分の一 a natural way of referring to “a quarter” as in “a three-month duration”?
order of words in a sentence
confusion with location words
How to understand the meaning of 愛{いと}しさ
何も means 'Nothing' instead of 'What also'
What is the difference between using を and と with the verb 言う?
How to convert verbs from polite form to dictionary form?
The modification target of 忌み嫌われる
How do you indicate line breaks in a poem when it is written without actual line breaks?
好き【すき】でした。付き【つき】合って【あって】ください。
Pronunciation of 九
How does the order of place and subject affect the meaning of a sentence using the verb iru
What does it mean when a number is followed by こ
”でもありやいい制度だ” Help with one line from manga translation
名詞の修飾と「～か」・「～かどうか」についての質問
Meaning of 入る in 帯が入る
How to say “he/she knows”? [closed]
Meaning and transitivity of ゴミ袋を手に立ち上がる
Rendering an appositive “which” clause in Japanese
What does やがんだ mean?
Did ある and いる once have kanji?
How do you decide the alias of the radical for kanjis such as “字” and “旧”?
Why are the names of plants and animals often written in katakana?
Could you repeat that please?
Transitive, Intransitive Verbs and Particles
meaning of ギッタンギッタン with reference
How to rephrase sentences with an ambiguous は to indicate the contrastive or thematic / 「主題」と「対比」の解釈の余地のある、あいまいな「は」の言い換え方
How to find words you cant find in a dictionary? Help with translating Dragon Ball [closed]
Are there ways to write Japanese fast (like shortening the words)?
Why is the に particle used in this sentence?
How are 超域 and 学際 different?
Can both Hepburn and Kunreisiki romaji be used to write a person's name?
What type of romanization is “Hatchōbori”?
Why are し/ち transliterated as 'shi'/'chi', and not 'si'/'ti'?
Why wasn't 欒 simplified to 栾, when 戀 was simplified to 恋?
When is the onyomi of 田 used?
ねん in the Kansai dialect
Usage and meaning of 召す【めす】 in different contexts
Does 考え方 usually refer to the “methodology” of one's thought process, or can it also refer to something more subjective?
What does までもが mean in this sentence, and もが in general
Categorizing kanji variants - is there a “proper” form?
ですら・でも・さえ・だろう（と／が）。 Are there any differences?
What is wrong in “森田さんは新開発の薬をもって病気を克服した”?
“Year of the X” - is there an idiom?
Japanese for “The Narrow Road to the Deep North” (the Richard Flanagan novel)
Direct object or directional を
Which is the most correct (or common): 話 or 話し?
なったら vs. なると – usage in context
What is the proper way to write “cube” in romaji?
How do you refer to items in a list?
Can Verb stand in front of sentence?
How to say “to mutilate” in Japanese
When does one use 〜もらいました versus 〜くれました? [duplicate]
Usage of the phrase/word ですので
What's the kanji for “appointed location”
Are programming languages referred to by their English names or do they have Japanese names?
Atypical use of ~させます
Reading 九十九 as “tsukumo”
かな ending in a sentence where the speaker is not uncertain of something
ムダ足だった == useless leg?
What is this kanji?眞+頁
What's the use of で in 「日本の食べ物で大好きなものは何？」
Interpreting させていただきます
What is the difference between 語{かた}る and 話{はな}す?
Difference between 勝つ and 勝てる?
Stroke order explanation for 凸 and 凹
Using という before わけです
How to tell the difference between 先｛せん｝ and 先｛さき｝?
Why is China ちゅうごく while Korea is かんこく? Why the difference between ご and こ?
Meaning of てはならない
What is the difference between ～みたい and ～らしい when expressing similarity or resemblance? [duplicate]
Meaning of ~と言われればそれまでだが、…
Expressing similarity
Expressing ~no option but
Explaining phrase お客様各位【きゃく.さま.かく.い】
「高くはある」と「高い」の違い
Differences between 「することはない」 and 「しなくてもいい」
「君の声が聞こえなくて、逢えると信じる。」
Differences between words for “optimistic” and “pessimistic”
Meaning of 根づいていた / 根づく
Meaning of せっかく [duplicate]
Quoted clause in Aさんが言うには〜とのこと
Using 無理 to empathise
Difference of まさか and まさに
Equivalent of “That said, Carthage must be destroyed” in Japanese
Is 冷やかし positive/negative/neutral?
What does 「～知ってください」 mean in The Blue Hearts' song リンダリンダ?
Meaning of 〜たら in this sentence
Is 「どこにいくのがよろしいですか」 a correct way to ask for directions?
Do all words need a particle?
Understanding a phrase - 必ずやらなければならないことを　まとめてみた
When does it make sense to use 「〜でない。」？
What is this form : Verb + はせん?
Difference between ずっと and いつも
通{とお}した and 通{つう}じた – usage in context
急{きゅう}に vs.すぐに – usage in context
〜ず versus 〜ないで　(and maybe also in the case of adjectives, 〜なくて）
Differentiating honorific passive and potential conjugations of 出る
Should I start with Hiragana, Katakana or Kanji? [closed]
それどころじゃない and 〜どころじゃない grammar points.
はく and きる or just きる?
Most correct “noun suffix” for “living in X” or “resident of X”?
「これくらいで」 whats the grammatical purpose that で has here?
Same kanji compound, with different readings, and meanings depend on the reading? (heteronyms)
difference between 計画を立てる and 計画をする？
How emotionally loaded is 会いたい【あいたい】?
Difference between 超える【こえる】 and 超す【こす】？
Why in this example sentence there's no difference between ごとに and おきに?
“To the East/West/North/South are distinct [feature-rich] areas that fill the land”
Help translating this paragraph: doubts about 「への」and「と共に」forms, and structure of a sentence beggining with 「これ」?
Difference between 回復【かいふく】, 修復【しゅうふく】, 復旧【ふっきゅう】 and 復興【ふっこう】
How can we understand and translate はず used with facts of known truth?
Do you need to use の when using へ to modify a noun?
How to parse ～なくたって?
What does “nanode” mean? What are its grammatical rules?
I don't understand the meaning and “naran” in this sentence 早く日曜日にならんかな
Difference between 「で」助詞 and 「だ」助動詞の連用形「で」
Have I placed “itsu” correctly in the sentence?
How to place ありました with the 〜んです pattern, and the meaning of the resulting sentence
What is “Sino-Japanese word order”?
How to order pizza or dinner on the phone
Sorting and Grouping a Japanese Index or Glossary
Difference between 試験{しけん} and テスト
Different usage of 五
Splitting Kanji and okurigana at the end of the line
私は米国人です vs 私はアメリカ人です
Adverbs in Japanese versus English
Why is ～とみえる used here?
Difference between 隠｛かく｝す and 秘｛ひ｝める (to hide)
Difference between 維持｛いじ｝する and 保｛たも｝つ (to maintain)
What does 挨拶ナマ mean? [closed]
Difference between 絶叫｛ぜっきょう｝する and 怒鳴｛どな｝る (to shout)
What's the difference between 参考【さんこう】 and 参照【さんしょう】?
When writing by hand, can kana be half-width and kanji be full-width?
What's a good word for “offer”, as in “…for offering us eternal life…”?
Meaning of いやみを必ず顔に表す
Are グラス and ガラス alternative spellings of the same word?
Why does 甲斐 use these particular kanji?
When to use ＸはＹより vs ＸとＹとどちらが……？
Can [面倒]{めんどう} be used as “boring”?
What happens if なの is used, but not at the end of a sentence?
Translation help- which word あまり is effecting and general implication of the word 方向
Translation to Japanese: “The test will determine which university I will go to.” [closed]
Usage of 整{ととの}える for asking for a trim when getting a hair cut
I don't get how 今日 works in 今日は誘ってくれて嬉しかった.
Can you say ～てもらった when you actually did nothing?
Is the particle を in をでる comparable to elative case?
Can I insert hiragana in words I only know partially how to write?
Expressing subject vs target
Using conditional 'ば'
の in Verb＋のじゃない: Nominalizer or Explanatory?
difference between 妥協｛だきょう｝and 歩｛あゆ｝み寄｛よ｝り　(compromise)
This text appears to be labeling V-し・V-せず・Adj-なく・N-に as present, V-して・V-しないで・Adj-なくて・N-で as past. Why?
Is すしや and おすしやさん the same? [duplicate]
助詞｢も｣の意味を教えてください
English for 会心 as a stat in an online game
Comparing ということだ and そうだ
What is the difference between 賢い{かしこい} and 利口{りこう}?
どの object も = “whichever”?
Difference between 証【あかし】 and 証拠【しょうこ】 (proof)
Difference between 意志｛いし｝ and 志し｛こころざし｝ (will)
ことになっている vs ようになっている
Is saying 「XはYは…」 acceptable?
Difference between 獣｛しし｝ and 野獣｛やじゅう｝ (beast)
What is the etymology of 森羅万象 and what does it mean?
Kanji for におい - when do you use 匂い and when do you use 臭い?
Please teach me more about ハダカ格
What is the function of particle に in 「Aチームに[勝つ]【かつ】チームがあるとしたら…」?
Translation help with a sentence, use of たる?
Intentional hiragana transcription for foreign names
Interpreting active/passive voice in Japanese
Expressing 'according/as per'
Does word order change the meaning of a sentence?
Meaning of きゅんきゅん
What's the first character in the phrase 「?度乾燥しなさい」? [closed]
Is 行く stative, continous or instantaneous?
What is the difference between 積もる 【つもる】 and 溜まる 【たまる】?
Greetings to use in email enquiries
What's that accordion style book you can get at shrines called?
How should I refer to food whose name mentions its main ingredients?
What does てたも mean?
の versus こと in head-internal relative clauses
Difference between 変{か}わり and 変{か}える
How do you say “after all”, in the sense of reaffirming or justifying a previous statement?
How can I translate these workplace goals into Japanese? [closed]
How is かって being used here?
What is the difference between 思【おも】い付【つ】く and 思【おも】い浮【う】かぶ?
How to reply to a business email with “yes, I'm ok with this time frame”?
What does 「かけようかどうしようか」 mean?
The etymology of 頭{あたま}金{きん}
the omission of an implied “の” creates the appearance of a 四字熟語{よじじゅくご}?
Both 当たり前 and 相変わらず seem to mean “usual” or “ordinary”. What's the difference between them?
Translation help with this sentence? 何人も触れること能わぬ- everyone or no one?
買う, durative or instantaneous?
使ってみなさい, and 使っても意味のない場所
What function does で have in the sentence 馬は動物である? [duplicate]
What is the English equivalent of ストーリー総監修?
What's the word for “life” but with emphasis on the positiveness of life?
Don't understand the use of そして + に in a sentence [closed]
「床屋」と「髪床」の違いは何ですか？
NHK has a series titled 「きらり！えん旅【たび】」. What does the えん in えん旅 mean?
たの at the end of 「そんなに寝ぼけるまで熟睡してたの？」
What are valid responses to the expressions 「はじめまして」 and 「よろしくおねがいします」 used in introductions?
Significance of 「温」 in 「温故知新」
What is the difference between ～たとき vs ～るとき
What does ～とか mean when it doesn't indicate an example?
Can ～もの be applied to all verbs to make them a noun?
Etymological connection between 門 and 円?
Difference between ～に伴う【ともなう】 and ～を伴う【ともなう】 [duplicate]
What does 馬鹿も一芸 mean in English? [closed]
Purpose of ～とは in 「あなたにとって仕事とはなんでしょうか」
can one be “さびしい” without being “かなしい”?
Why “greengrocer” kanjis are 八百屋 (やおや)?
What's the function of ~には in 「おやには長生きしてもらいたいとおもう」?
How do you interpret an “interrogative word + non-polite form + か + 知る” construct? [duplicate]
Old way of counting people?
Difference between ベッド and 寝台
Grammar in a modern translation of the 古事記 : ～ようもない
What does the てさ in 「忘れててさ」 mean?
Are 済む・澄む・住む cognate?
Understanding use of における
しな at the end of a sentence
～ようと… Japanese grammar
Is the negative form of 住む related to すみません (i.e. “I'm sorry”/“Excuse me”), and how is it used in actual conversation?
Expressing “should do” with こと・べき・もの
What is the subject in 「士郎の理想、英雄となった姿があなたではないのですか。」?
Is “Xがどこに見つけられますか” an acceptable translation of “Where can I find X”?
Why is Austin spelled with an オ?
particle grammar, は and が [duplicate]
What does “声が出る” mean?
How is “if one does not differ” translated using the word 異なる and the ば-ending?
Dictionary form of verb to indicate progressive actions or actions in progress?
What's the difference between そうです and そうでしょう?
Help me understand the grammar of this sentence: ～のこと～のこと、～なってもらえたかな
“訳す” is the best way to say “to translate”?
Does 好きな really mean “favorite”?
What does 揺らぎやすい女性 mean?
Specialized banking/credit card vocabulary
What is this character? [closed]
What is the etymology of the word 杜撰（ずさん）?
Meaning of あさっての方向 “Asatte no houkou”
Asking “Do you speak Japanese?” in Japanese
I don't understand what のも means in this sentence
To which part of speech belong 〜とはいえ and 〜というものの, and as what part of sentence are they usually used?
Could ルフレ be considered a gender-neutral name?
What “non-standard” katakana are commonly used?
“~において、…” vs. “~にとって、…” differences?
What is the meaning of 座っておいで?
Are な and だ both copula verbs?
How to say “had been [verbing]”?
Do ちょうだい、ごらん、ください、おいで constitute an own class of part of speech?
What is the function of ちょうだい in 読んでちょうだい?
Could someone please clarify if I'm translating these two sentences correctly? [closed]
Does ところを always mean the same thing as のに? What is the difference between ところへ and ところに?
Natural Usage of けれども
What are the benefits of learning radicals? [closed]
に vs で: 映画に見る vs 映画で見る
Do I say えいがにみました or えいがをみました　？
けれども as a neutral connector
What's the meaning of ナーミンナイト in this song lyric?
Can't recognize these handwritten kana (or kanji) in a text
How do you say “I have been […]”?
Clarification on 軍の命令で善悪の区別もつかなくなる
technical term for “形容動詞{けいようどうし} + にする”?
[奨学金]{しょうがくきん} and Repayment
Translation of phrase 「留守を預かる者として、主の家を汚した蒙昧」
The meaning of phrase 「すこしじつ」
What is the origin of スタンド meaning “desk lamp”?
“Irregular” 命令形 of some verbs
How did the originally honorific forms of address 君、お前、貴様 become informal or even insulting?
What does 「アップしています」 mean?
What is 林家パー子ばり?
In general, do Japanese people communicate formally or informally when conversing on a forum/commenting/chat?
含む vs. 含んでいる vs. 含まれている
How to express appositives in Japanese
The implied meaning of 日本人
Are ここ, そこ and あそこ prepositions?
How to say “Nobody is perfect” in Japanese
V(さ)せる when it doesn't indicate permission/compulsion
meaning of “べつにいいけど”
Understanding the usage of つくin 体{からだ}につけたまま
Are there a kanji for マル and バツ (O and X, right and wrong)
名 versus 名前: Why is this seemingly redundant Jukugo used?
どうか〜〜ますように in 「どうか異世界の出来事でありますように」
Is the 仮定形 used only to make the conditional?
are the godan verbs always followed by either a,e,i,o or u before a further suffix is added? [duplicate]
How to use に限って【かぎって】 correctly
What is the etymology of the て-form?
How do you write 縮めて in IPA?
いる connected to a proposition?
Meaning of 楽に済ませようとする
Sentence structure: “I can accomplish (a) by doing (b)”
was the plain negative of aru once or in a certain dialect aranai?
What is the meaning of this joke? [closed]
Are verbs transformed into the ず-form used like adverbs?
What is the difference between asu and ashita? [duplicate]
Usage of wake desu
What is the difference between “verb＋て＋みる” and “verb＋(よ)う+とする”?
Difference between おく and 中
What does 滅多に modify in these sentences?
Something that can be written with kanji but not with kana?
Japanese writings in Brazil [closed]
meaning of “目{め}に見えるほど、〜”
What does 窓という窓 mean?
My teacher wrote a triangle on my Japanese homework. What does it mean? [duplicate]
Polite or casual?
文章の話題語の変化はどう解釈されていますか？
Compound words with 漢字 and カタカナ? (例えば：新メニュー）
What does ”それが” mean in this context?
ダブルクォートと[鉤括弧]{かぎ・かっ・こ}の使い分けは？
How to write the passive form of the potential form?
What is the purpose of 「し」 in phrase 「私は緊{きん}張{ちょう}しすぎて」?
It seems “hard deadline” can be translated to 厳しい締切. Would “soft deadline” then be translated as 厳しくない締切?
Is 何歳ですか polite? [duplicate]
What is meant/implied by “じゃないんだからね”?
Using double negative
Could someone tell me what if anything is wrong with these translations? [closed]
In “[Vます stem] + し+ [noun]” what does し mean? [duplicate]
Question about supposedly a Japanese proverb
“何を言っている __のか__ 、分からない” vs. “何を言っている __なのか__ 、分からない”
Particles following ところ （に, を, and で）
Reason for 「のか」 and 「かもしれません」 in 「何を言っているのかわからないかもしれませんけど」
How to write “yi” in katakana
What are words which stand at the very end of a sentence (like “yo” and “tomo”) called?
What is a subsidiary verb?
What is the meaning and application of ren'youkei?
「予定調和」 usage in casual speech
Why is ホワイト spelled as it is?
What is 「たもうた」 in 「 神の創りたもうた世界」?
Usage of「次第に」with the past tense
Is スポーツ a plural-only word?
Can't understand why “に” is used in “蚊に刺された” or what's the sense of this sentence
Describing a woman with きれい vs. 美しい{うつくしい}?
What is the difference between 文{ぶん} and 文章｛ぶんしょう}?
Difference between kara/made から・まで vs kara/nikakete から・にかけて
Difference between 「〜 時{じ}に」 and 「〜 しながら」
Does また今度 imply concrete future plans in certain regions/dialects?
How do I translate the word “Town's End”?
Was “The Tale of Genji” really written completely or almost completely in hiragana?
what's a ポッカリ (pokkari)?
Meaning of 「緊張しながら」 and grammar of 「〜しながら」 part
Exact meaning and usage of 「またこんど」
How to write “I'm going to sleep tomorrow”?
Meaning of JAPAなび
Difference between 「答え｛こたえ｝」 and 「回答 ｛かいとう｝」 and 「正解 {せいかい}」
Meaning of 「以上」 when someone finishes his/her speech and says 「以上」
particle に uses
example usage of ~kiri
Why does this text use both 下さい and ください in the same context?
When should I use a verb stem by itself?
What is the etymology of 〜ません（でした）?
Difference between 受{う}ける and もらう
expressing 'among' in japanese
Expressing concurrency
Expressing 'if so'
Why do some loanword sounds get “contracted” when katakanized, but not others?
Can we use Kanji for 「すみれ」 (violet color)?
「慎重すぎる」 and 「慎重に過ぎる」 - is there a difference?
Explaining the phrase お世{せ}話{わ}になります and お世{せ}話{わ}になりました
Can we use Kanji for 「もらう」?
Meaning and grammar of やるっきゃない
Difference between 「なるベく」 and 「なるべき」
Analysis of いい[加減]{か・げん}[目覚]{め・ざ}めなさい
When mixing Japanese and English, should I use Japanese parentheses? [closed]
Difference between 日{に}本{ほん} and 来{らい}日{にち}
How does one analyze “N + を前に + V”, where N is not an object of V
Explanation of 歌にのせて
Understanding the meaning and grammar of 出{で}て in 出{で}て来{き}ました
expressing 'not possible that' [duplicate]
what does のも mean at the end of a clause?
N + sou desu is acceptable
Where does だらけ come from?
Making 「たくさん」act as a full-fledged 形容動詞{けいようどうし}
Proper usage of 語 and 言語 and 言葉 when speaking about someone's language
Kanbun reading of this expression
Meaning of 具体的に [duplicate]
Did the modern usage of katakana predate the Americans?
Difference between 実は and 実に
What is difference between 値段 (nedan) and 代金 (daikin)?
What word and form is うってる？
Repeating subject for emphasis okay?
What is the term for a word which can be written with one kanji or two kanji but where the meaning is the same?
Is there any difference in meaning between 陥る and 落ち入る?
Using が multiple times in one sentence
How do you say “What are the differences between car and motorcycle ”?
Difference between ごめんください and お邪魔します
meaning of シュワーっと
Proper answer to 「何名様ですか」
別に to mean “not particularly”
Is there an “official” font or other writing standard that should be used when teaching kanji?
Difference in usage between クラス and 学級
Respectful way to say “policeman”
How is “gomen” used?
Difficulty of Meiji literature [closed]
after saying “ありがとう” to someone, they can't renege without hard feelings?
Differences in usage between 撮る{とる} and 写す{うつす}、写る｛うつる}?
How do you politely and gratefully reply to an invitation to be published?
What is the function of にも in this sentence?
Where does のみ come from?
Origins of the Volitional Form
When do we use 〜どおりに instead of 〜のとおりに after nouns?
Question about 「まるで～　～ように」
Difference between 貸す and 貸し出す
Pronouncing ＋ in dictionary definitions
Difference between 取り返しがつかない and 仕方がない
いまさら後悔してみたところで、してしまったことは取り返しがつかない
Usage of ていく in 死んでいく
謙譲語{けんじょうご} nouns such as 弊社{へいしゃ}, etc
How did 参った come to mean 'defeated' from 参る?
華麗にスルーする　Ignore someone . . . how exactly?
Some questions about って
What does よう at the end of the sentences mean?
Is using 笑 to mean “lol” feminine or gender-neutral?
How would you write “Turtle-senpai”
_っ_り form adverbs
When ない becomes ぬ
can 美化語{びかご} create implied subjects?
Japanese: “osowarata”?
How do you say “My skills in programming languages are Javascript, Zend framework, Yii framework, etc”?
Combining a noun phrase with an adjective
「を」 object marker in this 受身形{うけみけい} sentence [duplicate]
Need help with the meaning of this sentence (usage of ようとしている）
What does まわりであーだこーだ mean in this sentence?
What's the difference between 値段 and 価格
difference between 持ち込む and 持って来る？
History of 馬 and 梅
Trouble understanding grammar in 「名を、柊という。」
How to translate “a detail-oriented person”?
Difference between ヒーター and ストーブ
Can you show any examples of a 兼務発令書 in English? [closed]
Trouble with these sentences, subject-verb confusion and difficult words?
How do you say there are “x” number of days until some event or something?
How can I say “very little” in Japanese
When did LOC adopt modified Hepburn?
How should I understand the use of particle に in the context of 受身形 and 自動詞 in these sentences?
what is the difference between 送る and 贈る?
What kind of butterfly is a 「ゼッコーちょう」?
If writing in である form, when is it necessary to use だ？
〜くはない vs 〜くない in adjective negations
Difference between 下る、下りる、下がる?
Need help parsing combined forms of a verb
Need help understanding 心は気高く / そのまた先で感じていくの
What's difference between 昼(hiru) and 正午(shōgo)?
Differences between 勉強する、習う、学ぶ and 学習する?
How to negate “べき”? (ie. “should not”)
How would a name be used as a non-restrictive appositive?
Some questions regarding ~てくる (edited)
Greeting a friend saying 'yo'
Usage of なんて and なんか as emphasis
Difference between 授業を受ける and 授業を取る
Classical: On the subject of a sentence with 連用形/て clauses + ば condicional
～て vs ～てから for sequencing activities
'Get on' a road
Verb used for “being in a class”
What is the meaning of のか and how does it differ from か?
Meaning of phrase「その足を縫われたいか」
Looking for a translation コミカライズ
Asking a negative question
Etymological origin of -n in 洗 (セン)
Looking for an explanation of the usage "あったものじゃない”
Why is Danny written & pronounced ダニー and not ダニ?
About 上旬、中旬、下旬 and 始め、半ば、終わり．．．?
Do 「AとしてのB」 and 「BとしてのA」have symmetry?
What is the difference between 〜を〜とする and 〜を〜とした before nouns?
Why should one be careful of soft and sweet words in this neighbourhood?
Why should one be careful of soft and sweet words in this neighbourhood?
Meaning and translation of 「佃煮にするほど」
Why are the verb classes called ichidan and godan?
What does ホルモンの肉が好き mean in this passage?
What does “irregular” mean in a sense of a missing okurigana letter? (上【あ】がる・上【あが】る, 明【あか】るい・明【あかる】い)
How is あって being used in this context?
Use of おく and 方 in this sentence
Is は used when asking if something already discussed exists?
Is マラソン always 42.195 km?
What's the reading of 傾げる? かしげる or かたげる?
Other words for and familiarity of 桜でんぶ?
Difference between 給湯器 and 湯沸器?
Can the appositive have more than one meaning in a phrase?
What is the difference between 実験室, 研究室 and 実習室?
類 in animal and plant names
What is the difference between 目を細める and 眼を細める
“トサカに　くる” meaning
Why is “UFO” pronounced as if it were a word?
I can't quite understand the meaning of 自分でも
What does シャレオツ mean?
Is this sentence in a different language or is it just gibberish?
に/で and を/から - particle choice in two JLPT N5 sentences
What is the exact meaning of “kaizen”?
Difference between 生まれてくる and 生まれる
how to translate おでんとか?
Politely asking to stay at someone's home? お邪魔させてもらう、泊めてもらう、or 滞在させてもらう?
Meaning of 心が響いてくる
What does 「やめとこう」mean?
Which one is correct 会社名前 or 会社の名前?
What is the difference between 会社 and かいしゃ? [duplicate]
What is Vて+た construction?
Is my hiragana writing understandable? [closed]
How to say “let's start using our first names when we talk?”
What does じいつにくうだらない mean?
Exceptions in pronouncing the counter for minutes (分)
How to use はるばる　/　はるばると in a sentence
What is the implication when a girl refers to herself using “うち”? Is it meant to be more or less feminine? Neutral? Tomboyish?
Difference between usage of ように and ようにして
は/が with いる. When to use each of them
meanings of 「書{か}いてある」 and 「書かれている」
Usage of -ないことになる
Usage of the pronouns 「我が輩」 and 「方」 in everyday life
Difference between 闇 (yami) and 怨 (on) [closed]
What is じゃねぇか? What is its original form?
How can you express a “double causative”?
Is there any difference between the two “エ” in 「エフェクト」?
How do you say “This souvenir is from X” where X is a person or a place?
Is おつかれさん “correct” Japanese to address to someone of lower status?
Ending an email in Japanese to your sensei?
What does 2-jigen or 3-jigen mean?
Problems understanding なの in this sentence
What is the character for resistance?
The difference between [noun phrase]+[？・なの？・ですか？・なんですか？]
About a song lyric
Trouble parsing sentence with どうしても and a triple negative
What kind of object is こんだら?
I don't understand what やな means at the end of a sentence…?
Can you construct a future-continuous verb tense?
Can 「〜たら〜た。」structure mean “If I had~then I would have~”?
What does まかなう mean here?
想い vs. 思い - Do Both Mean Feeling?
difference between 電卓{でんたく} and 計算機{けいさんき}
Need Help Understanding ーているよう
Question about the phrase「挑みかかる手前な顔」
Are 漢語 always more formal than 和語？
What are the uses of に and とは in this sentence?
Meaning of ぬ added to 連用形 / masu-stem, as in 風立ちぬ
Is a kanji list read in 訓読み or 音読み?
Difference between Japanese words for illusion with 幻
で at the end of a word
What does this lyric mean?
Can number + 部 mean the number of copies?
Meaning of しょわー
break down ~いていいと思ってる
Kisshu fushin actual meaning
Was the Japanese reading “raito” for moon, ever been used before Death Note came to existence?
omitting conjunction で for emphasis?
How to translate 「まだ行ったことのないアメリカや日本に行ってみたいです」? [duplicate]
How were hiragana/katakana influenced by syllabary writing systems?
what nuance does calling oneself “ふつつかもの” have?
How do I turn this into “will” form?
What is the difference between 夕立 and 朝立ち? [closed]
What is the difference between [友達]{とも・だち} and [友人]{ゆう・じん}?
What is “Almost” in Japanese
why isn't “そなわち” in dictionaries? what does it mean?
Learn kanji or just furigana for a vacation in Japan [closed]
What difference is there between ディスカウント and バーゲン?
What is the correct syntax for large numbers in kanji?
Does 大さじ always mean 1 Tablespoon, even for tea?
How would you use 裏切り in a sentence?
俺 and 僕 used as second person singular pronouns
ら抜き言葉: Why doesn't 忘れれれば exist?
How to interpret “自分への戒め”?
How to interpret “ダメな時はダメ”?
へようこそ and にようこそ
What is the difference between だらけ and ばかり
When to use “どうぞよろしくお願{ねが}い致{いた}します。” in a greeting?
Grammar: Combine 慣れる and -くなる
Meaning of ひとつで自由に出せるように
What is a Togi yoru
What does どうやら mean?
Why does the waiter use past tense here
Is “フリーマーケット” sometimes assumed to be derived from “Free”?
Is 「うそおっしゃい」 to be taken literally here?
Is こればよかった correct or not?
How to say farewell in 敬語?
Confusion with the の particle
Email: 「回答」vs「返事」
つー事 as a sentence starter [duplicate]
meaning of 詰めの甘さ
Differences between 死ぬ{しぬ}, 他界する{たかいする} and 亡くなる{なくなる}?
I do not understand the meaning of として in this sentence
[因果]{いん・が}: A bass-ackwards contraction?
Strive to achieve something
Ways to express prohibitions [duplicate]
Memories and freezing ice
The song in my thought
Petal from a misty flower
Properly translating a conditional
What is the difference between 腰掛ける and 座る?
Recognizing a Kanji?
How to properly pronounce コップ?
Why many words (nouns?) end with つ？
Why does 留守{るす} have two almost opposite meanings?
Verb for the object `dareka` in `探さずにはいられない 誰かを` [closed]
What does 世話焼き mean?
When romanizing a Japanese title, which words should be capitalized?
What is different between 日本間{にほんま}、和室{わしつ} and お座敷{ざしき}
Are katakana names pronounced as they are written?
Causative form + te form + another verb construction
What is a word meaning “to ask”?
Which is more natural: イエス様の救う恵み or 救うイエス様の恵み?
～ておく or ～とく for preparation (conjugation and nuance)
Do people use 駆逐 in general to mean “exterminate”?
Ta form + ように + phrase with verb meaning/usage e.g. 拗ねたように頬を膨らませる
What does [可愛が]りたい mean and how to use it?
What is this use of と辛い
What's the difference between 静けさ and 静かさ?
Are 髙 and 高 interchangeable?
Usage and Impression of きない vs. こない
Non-Japanese can know their “マナー”, but not their “礼儀{れいぎ}”?
What is the difference between -さん and -さま?
What is the こと in sentences such as あなたのことが好きだ?
「健全なる精神は健全なる身体に宿る」のなる [duplicate]
Meaning of 「生きるにしても死ぬにしても」
I wish I hadn't gone there
Is there a difference between the particle お (o) and the particle を (wo) [duplicate]
Adnominalisation (Relative clause - noun - copula structure): What does it mean? How can we translate it?
Why was “一匹” used for Godzilla?
Why is the kanji for luck the same as to carry?
Is /z/ pronounced as [z] or [dz] or both?
Looking for references on 複合格助詞
Regarding the meaning of ～曲げて捉えて
Can the である copula be explained as で (particle) + ある (to exist), i.e. “to exist in the form of ~”?
Expressing a mild preference
Does Kagekifu mean anything? [closed]
What is this 10^40 thing?
How would you say “this song is played” and “in some places/cities” in natural Japanese? [closed]
Middle Dot (中黒) in Non-Japanese Names
Meaning of そうして
The の in のに and なのに
Telling the speaker apart from the person being spoken about
Ellipsis Usage and Format
Which form should be used: ろくしゅうかん or ろくしゅう?
Why does 目 have a counting sense to it?
What is the difference between 「一応」and 「一時的に」
Why is 住んでいるのが好きです incorrect?
What does 'hikarian' mean?
Difference between 目覚める and 起きる
can I get away with not having a subject in a sentence if the subject is not relevant to the meaning?
Does 友達 have the plural marker たち “built-in”?
For body: 身体 or 体
Etymology and meaning of ukemi (受け身?) as part of 合気道
Difference between 北辰 and 北極星
